[music]
Payrolls we think are weak and we think
the risk is on the downside. Our own
forecast has the labor market looking
quite resilient in [music] 2026.
>> The Fed's mandate is not what headline
GDP is doing. The Fed's mandate is the
labor market.
>> If the labor market is [music] clearly
weak, the Fed's cutting a lot more than
what's priced in.
>> The Fed is not going to solve the labor
market. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with [music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance on Jobs Tuesday. It doesn't
really sound right. Stocks struggling to
hold on to gains with traders focused
squarely on that data. Questions [music]
swirling about the strength of the
economy as we await the November
payrolls report and retail sales from
October, which maybe not doesn't matter
at all. Optimism still abounding with
investors surveyed by Bank of America
looking for brighter times in [music]
2026. Damian Sassau, I'm so glad to say,
is going to be joining me for the next 3
hours. Damian, it seems like there's
this dissonance between the optimism and
surveys and a lack of real enthusiasm,
at least in market pricing.
>> I think you're right. Economic
expectations are [music] finally
catching up to the market. Look,
recession risk is non-existent. Proy
procyclical positioning in equities and
commodities is certainly on [music] the
rise.
>> Yeah, and this is a reason why people
are looking at what could be the next
catalyst. I was really struck by Bank of
America's fund manager survey. fact that
cash allocations fell to the lowest
level on record. At the same time that
everyone seems to think that things are
going to be rosy and golden in 2026, yet
we're still seeing [music] some sort of
dip in markets right now.
>> Yeah, but I think the tail risk measures
tell a lot, right? Private credit and AI
tech bubble. I mean, those are some of
the tail risks that investors are sort
of trying to trying to position against
and it'll be interesting to see how
investors kind of, you know, do that in
the year ahead. I think there's a lot of
different ways, a lot of different uh
different mechanisms they [music] can do
to take advantage of where we are in the
markets. Well, right now people are in a
show me uh kind of story and what you
are seeing is a failure for the Santa
Claus rally that everyone's been hoping
for after yesterday really falling
[music] into the close. We're seeing a
continuation of that sort of negative
sentiment down to t of a percent on S&P
futures. That dollar weakness
continuing. Watch for the 118 mark on
Euro dollar cross and yields continuing
to eek higher. 10-year yields close to
that 4.18% [music]
ahead of that jobs report. Watch the
unemployment rate. crude falling to the
lowest this year as people look to
Ukraine [music] and any kind of
potential resolution there. Coming up
this hour, don't miss this. Paul Quincy
of JP Morgan Asset Management with
stocks on track for a third day of
losses. IAS Galoo of Bank of America as
we were talking about with that investor
sentiment at its most bullish in more
than three years and Stephanie Roth of
Wolf Research counting down to that
payrolls report. We begin this hour with
stocks just edging lower as markets
await the latest jobs print. Paul
Quincy, global head of equities at JP
Morgan Asset Management, writing, "Many
of our investors have become somewhat
more cautious. We suggest diversifying
from recent winners and focusing
strongly on quality stocks, uh,
especially in the small cap space." Paul
joins us now. Paul, a lot of mixed
messages this morning. Can you square
the idea that people are feeling
cautious, at least right now, but very
optimistic into 2026?
>> Yeah, I think so. The surveys are
interesting. To me, the real survey
starts at 9:30 every morning, right? We
can look at the market and see what that
really expresses what investors are
thinking. Investors are feeling pretty
good right now. So, the earnings growth
has been terrific and I think everyone
including us expects that to continue
into next year. But it has not gone
unnoticed. So, this year has been again
triumph of the optimists in terms of the
fundamentals. Think how different things
feel now to to April. But when you look
at how that's expressed in market
pricing, it's the triumph of the very
optimistic. So, we've got an S&P 500
trading at 23 times next year's solid
looking earnings numbers. That's one of
the highest levels we've seen as we all
know. You've really got to go back to
2000 to find a much higher multiple. And
then within the market, you've seen this
tremendous appetite for some of the most
risky, most aggressive stocks,
particularly, you know, in the small cap
space. So, investors are feeling pretty
good about just about everything.
>> So, this is raises this question. How
can you be so optimistic if you've got
cash levels falling to the lowest levels
in the history of the Bank of America
fundament survey? I realize you're
global head of equities for JP Morgan
asset management. I'm not going to ask
you to talk about, you know, the sharks
and uh [laughter]
and the jets, but I am curious about how
much that's a contrarian signal to you
at a time when there still are a number
of concerns out there.
>> Yeah. So, as always, in the end, the
fundamentals will will dominate, right?
The fundamentals will drive stocks. As
we look into next year, we see pretty
good earnings growth in the US. We see
pretty good earnings growth in other
places as well. So, emerging markets,
for example, where we have not seen, at
least until recently, anything like this
kind of level of excitement. The 15-year
return on emerging markets is a
miserable 5% a year. So, it's been a
long time kind of in the shadows. But
this year, they're up a lot, and that's
for good reason. Earnings in emerging
markets growing 15 16% this year. We're
pretty confident that continues into
next year, too. So there are places
where you can invest into strong
earnings growth and not have to pay
record valuations and buys everything at
record highs.
>> Yeah. But Paul, emerging markets, they
they don't have nearly as much
liquidity. It's a much smaller market.
Just how much of the $17 trillion that
foreign investors have currently parked
in the US equity market. Just how much
of that 17 trillion can be shifted into
emerging market or for that matter
international equities?
>> Yeah. So well, if you get there first,
then you'll benefit from that money
moving, right? I mean I think the
certainly as we look at how investors
around the world are positioned they are
more concentrated than ever in large cap
US stocks that's been the place to be
right and the large cap US index makes
up 2/3 of the world's total market
capitalization if you go back 20 years
it was roughly half that number so so
you've had this tremendous concentration
in the US and look it's happened for the
right reasons it's been driven by better
earnings growth America on average has
the best companies in the best
industries and it's attracted a
tremendous amount capital, but it's also
now comes with high valuations. And
again, when you look forward at where
returns are going to come from, I'm not
so sure you want to be looking just at
where they've come from in the last 10
years.
>> Well, Paul, back in late October, you
and your colleague Anuj Aurora, I
believe, talked about the 50% valuation
gap between Asian tech stocks and those
here in the US. That hasn't really gone
away just yet. Are you still professing
that Asian tech stocks, you know, the AI
play has legs to it?
>> Yeah. No, I think that's definitely part
of the attraction of emerging markets.
You can buy technology at much lower
prices. And these are great companies
too. These are central to that the whole
AI story. The businesses are booming and
yet you're not paying anything like the
kind of valuations you have to in the
US. When you look at emerging markets
overall, about 20% of the earnings come
from tech and they're driving about half
the growth this year and we think that
continues into next year too. But
there's also a lot of other things going
on. So it's not just a tech story.
>> So how much does the US data matter
given the fact that we haven't gotten
it? We're about to get it. It's going to
be messy. We're not even sure what to do
with it. We're not even sure how to read
it. People are worried that there's
going to be an unemployment rate of four
and a half%. That might be okay. How are
you sort of using this to factor into
how to be aggressive and how to be
active next year?
>> Yeah. So, the data we're most focused on
as always is the earnings. Uh, of
course, we don't get the we get those on
a regular basis. We're about to get a
whole whole bunch more of them. And
they've just been so reassuring all
through the year. But hold on a second
and and I'm sorry to stop you, but there
is a sort of K-shaped economy that
people talk about and there sort of is a
sense that these earnings can't continue
unless you get ongoing participation
from a broader economic ground swell up.
So at what point are you looking for
that to really justify the sense that
the Fed will be cutting, you'll get
fiscal stimulus, and you'll get an
economy that doesn't fall off a cliff
that can support those earnings that are
the ultimate data that you're watching?
>> No, we want to see we certainly want to
see earnings growth broadening out in
the in the stock market, right? We know
we've been very very reliant on a on a
handful of companies, the greatest
companies the world has ever seen in
terms of their profitability, but
there's only so much you can expect from
that. So when we think about next year,
we're looking for most of the extra
earnings we see in the S&P 500 to come
from the 493. So we we think earnings
will be up around 40 bucks next year and
about$25$26
that increase has to come from that, you
know, that 493 all the other companies
in in corporate America. But we're
seeing that, right? And we're seeing our
earnings number when you look at
forecasts, it's not just about where the
forecast is now. It's about where the
forecast is going. And we're seeing
those numbers edging up across a whole
wide wide range of of companies. And
you're starting to see that in the
market, too, right? It isn't just about
AI and tech so far in the fourth
quarter.
>> Well, I mean, you talk about the
earnings growth kind of, you know,
spreading into other sectors called
healthcare, energy, financials. I know
you like those three, but let's talk
about by market cap, small caps. You
know, when I think of small caps, the
Russell 2000, I think of Bitcoin mining
and quantum computing. I mean, some of
these companies represent roughly 10% of
the index. Drone flying, taxi companies.
You know, when are those companies going
to generate some positive earnings
growth? Well, if you thought about those
companies this year, you'd made a lot of
money. Uh because those we call them the
memes and the themes, right? Those
stocks are 10% out of the market as you
point out. They've more than doubled
this year on average. Some of them are
up three, four, five times.
That's a very tough place to invest. And
when I talk about the triumph of the
optimists and the very optimistic,
that's perhaps the place where you see
the greatest amount of optimism. You
know, typically we're focused on
long-term fundamentals, long-term cash
flow generation. In the end, we think
that's what drives stock prices. So, if
those companies can deliver great
revenues and cash flows, then then
they'll be great investments. We think
many of them are going to really
struggle to do that. And that's one of
the places where we would worry most
about the kind of o investor over
optimism that that that you referred to
and that showed up in some of these
surveys.
>> Well, Paul, I mean, I know it's the debt
of winter December. So, sorry to steal a
baseball analogy here, but you know,
where are we? What inning are we in in
the earning cycle?
>> You know, it we're watching it
carefully, but it still feels to us like
things, if anything, are getting better,
not worse. Uh, so just because things
are good now doesn't mean they're going
to stay good, but the momentum going
into next year looks pretty good. and
you sort of outlined the backdrop. We've
got an accommodative Fed. We've got a
tremendous amount of fiscal spending and
that extends as far as the eye can see.
We've got an AIdriven investment boom.
These are pretty good times. So, you've
always got to be worried, always got to
be watching. But the data points that
we're looking at and the earnings that
we're seeing from companies, if
anything, they're getting a little bit
better.
>> Paul Quincy of JP Morgan Asset
Management, you'll be sticking with us.
And Damen, good try. I think that that
was an incredible punt away from the
baseball analogy of which inning? It's
just getting better. So maybe the first
inning.
>> Yeah. I mean, look, we need some bears
in the room here. I mean, this is just
way too bullish for me on a sleepy
Tuesday morning ahead of payrolls. But I
mean, look, you know, your guess is
anyone's. I mean, the, you know, we do
have payrolls coming up, but it's just
going to be so noisy. I mean, it looks
like the markets have already looked
past it.
>> Well, I just wonder how much this is
predicated on the idea of both fiscal
and monetary stimulus. This Goldilocks
backdrop that people see and how much
that needs to persist. In other words,
are we in for potentially some sort of
offsides move in response to this jobs
report that might mean nothing? People
don't know how to read it and that's why
I think people are really watching it to
understand how much people are waiting
for the Fed to have to participate in
this ongoing sentiment shift.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean the spread out to
international equities to emerging
market equities to unloved sectors.
Well, not less loved sectors, anything
other than it, right? I'm talking
healthcare, energy, and financials. I
mean, those are themes that we have yet
to really see take hold. It'll be
interesting to see if there's any
longevity there.
>> Yeah. Right now, people don't know
exactly what to do with all of this,
especially because we have seen a real
kind of hiccup in the AI story. Right
now, let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here's a bloomer
brief with Yahara on Antihira.
>> Good morning, [music] Lisa. Australian
authorities say Islamic State flags and
explosives were found in a vehicle
registered to [music] one of the gunmen
that attacked a Bondi Beach Han Hanukkah
celebration. At least 15 people were
killed in the terror attack on Sunday,
[music] allegedly carried out by a
father and son. The Sydney Opera House
was illuminated with a giant image of a
Hanukkah [music] minora as you can see
there on Monday night as thousands
gathered to mourn the victims.
Meanwhile, President Donald Trump filed
a defamation suit against the BBC over
an edit over of his January 6, 2021
[music] speech in a Panorama
documentary. The edit gave the
impression he had made a direct call for
violence in a speech leading up to the
attack [music] on the capital. Trump is
requesting $10 billion in damages
according to court documents filed
[music] in Florida.
And NASDAQ is looking to extend its
trading hours. The exchange [music]
wants to increase its hours from 16 to
23 per day. In a filing, the firm asked
the SEC for permission to add the
additional trading [music] session. If
approved, the change would take effect
in the second half of 2026. That's your
Bloomberg brief. Lisa, [music]
>> thank you so much. Ira, is it a good
idea to extend it to make it so that you
can never leave? You always have to be
in the office. You always have to be
trading.
>> Well, [music] Lisa, I haven't slept
since 1987, so it really doesn't matter
for me. But all my friends who do
actually get a decent night's sleep, I'm
talking five to six hours. Yeah, it
probably does matter quite a bit to them
if they want to see their families
again.
>> I I think that everybody's going to be
watching this to see how you perform on
No Sleeps since 1986. Up next, ending
the war in Ukraine.
>> I think we're closer now, and they they
will tell you that they're closer now.
We had numerous conversations with
President Putin of Russia and I think
we're closer now than we have been ever.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall and Oliver
Cook join us for group coverage coming
up next from New York City. This is
Bloomberg [music] Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> the [music] rotation underway as we end
the year. This really has been the
story. Even though you see that soggy
headline figure [music] in equities, you
do see the equal weight S&P continuing
to outperform and actually eek out
gains. Right now, what you see across
the board, yes, about a 30% decline
[music] in both the S&P and Russell 2000
futures. NASDAQ doing a little bit
worse. But if in the equal weight it has
been a lot more stable, which raises
this question, how much can you see a
broadening out without the participation
of the US economic data? Flip up the
boards 210 and 30s. You get the sense
that people are concerned that there
won't be enough weakness to cause the
Fed to cut rates, but just enough
weakness to maybe keep things on some
sort of tilt. Right now, you're seeing
just uh barely moving, but 350 on the
2-year. That long end of the curve
rising up to 4.85% on the 30-year.
Damian, to me, this is really the
question. Why this yield curve
steepening if you think that truly this
is the right move to be cutting more
[music] aggressively here?
>> Well, I mean, shouldn't that be good for
financials, for banks, right? A steeper
curve, higher net interest margins. But,
you know, you're right to point out that
I mean, industrials, utilities, [music]
these boring, stodgy sectors, companies
like GE, Caterpillar up big this [music]
year. So, you know, I do think we've
already seen a bit of that rotation out
of tech and into the broader S&P, but
again, just how just how much further
can this go?
>> You have an aura [music] ring and you
haven't slept since 1986. Is it
screaming at you?
>> Well, my wife wants to grade my sleep
now. I [music] got a 46 last night,
which was beautiful. Beautiful
[laughter] for me.
>> Great. Good to know. Duly noted.
Meanwhile, our focus very much
international as we try to gauge the
latest in Europe under surveillance this
morning ending the war in Ukraine.
>> I think we're closer now and they they
will tell you that they're closer now.
We had numerous conversations with
President Putin of Russia and I think
we're closer now than we have been ever.
We're having tremendous uh support from
European leaders. They want to get it
ended also. And at this moment, Russia
wants to get it ended.
>> Here's the latest. Ukraine's President
Vladimir Zilinski saying he secured a
deal with the United States to make
security guarantees legally binding.
Talks toward ending the war between
Russia and Ukraine are expected to
continue today. Our team coverage starts
right now with Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
in Washington and Oliver Crook in
Brussels. Tyler, I want to get your
sense. Uh we've heard a shift in tone
from President Trump. He's talked before
about how there's been progress made.
Why is this time different and reading
differently internationally?
>> Yeah. Hey Lisa, good morning. Well, we
should say that a US official did tell
reporters that the security guarantees
on the table would be article 5 like in
reference to NATO's mutual defense
clause. And that is really what is
making this different this time around
because though it is short on the exact
specifics and details, this is the type
of security guarantee that Ukraine has
long asked the US for and has long said
it would be difficult to reach any sort
of deal without that type of firm
commitment. Because as you're
referencing here, we've really seen this
eb and flow with the administration.
Just for context, the US had for months
suggested that any sort of guarantees
would be implicit because the US would
have this vested economic interest in
the U in Ukraine. We then saw that sort
of shift to signal that the US could
provide intelligence or air cover. So
the fact that this is on the table now
really marks the strongest pledge that
we've seen from the US so far. As you
mentioned, it's going to be really
important that Zalinsky says that he has
these asurances that this could be
codified and made legally bounding by
Congress because that signals that this
could endure past the Trump presidency.
Now, at the end of the day, we have to
keep in mind US officials are telling us
that these guarantees are only on the
table for so long as the White House is
really trying to mount that pressure to
get a deal done. The thing is, there's
still big questions here, including will
the Kremlin really come to the
negotiating table on this? And we know
that territory remains one of those huge
sticking points as President Trump
yesterday did suggest that Ukraine
should indeed seed land. Uh Lisa, at
this point we are seeing these talks
ramp up. The US re-engage this latest
round of diplomacy was led by special
envoy Steve Woff as well as the
president's son-in-law Jared Kushner.
Our understanding is the US is going to
next engage with Russia on what the
potential next steps could look like.
Yeah, Ali, this really is the question
and Tyler kept referencing it and you
heard that skepticism in President
Trump's commentary at this moment Russia
wants to get it ended. What are the
concessions being made on the Ukrainian
side and how feasible does the whole
deal that is currently uh emerging seem
to European allies of Ukraine?
Well, the European allies have been much
more positive and in fact, they gave a
pretty detailed readout of some of the
other aspects of the 20point plan um
from yesterday's meeting, which also
included things like keeping the
Ukrainian military up to 800,000 troops.
You'll remember that first 28 point plan
had asked for a reduction of the
Ukrainian army down to 600,000, but also
going into more detail of what those
security guarantees could actually
compose of. It could be a coalition of
the willing, which we're talking about
foreign troops potentially being within
the Ukrainian borders, talking about
maybe seizing some of those Russian
assets, bringing forward those recovery
fronts to try to reconstruct Ukraine.
Another thing that the Ukrainian the
Europeans are bringing to the table is a
potentially accelerated uh path for the
Ukrainians to join the European Union.
So trying to get their foot in the door
and trying to get their sort of uh
voices heard at the table, which they
seem to have succeeded in a little bit.
But as you were saying here, the sort of
Europeans being very positive about this
deal and the Ukrainians being very
positive of this deal, I think suggests,
you know, how is Russia going to feel?
The more positive these two sides are
going to be, presumably the more
negative Russia is going to be. And
there's still that key issue of
territorial concessions. The Ukrainians
have softened a little bit on that. We
heard from Zilinsky saying there could
be a referendum in Ukraine about
surrendering those parts of the Donbass
or maybe finding another sort of
bridging concept by the United States.
But the Russians have said pretty
explicitly from the beginning that there
is no peace agreement. There's not even
a ceasefire agreement until there is an
agreement to get the rest of the Donbass
under Russian control in some in some
way or another. And that still has not
been settled as of today.
>> Oliver Crook, Tyler Kendall, both of
you, thank you so much for the
comprehensive look at what's going on.
Paul Quincy, global head of equities at
JP Morgan Asset Management, still with
us. And Paul, how much does this ongoing
negotiation affect your view on Europe
right now based on the idea that a
rebuild effort could be really positive,
an ongoing war, really negative?
>> Yeah. So, it's all part of the mosaic
for for European equities. Obviously, it
means a lot to the world and everyone
wants to see peace. In terms of the
markets themselves, it's probably not
the major, you know, the major driving
factor. We do think though that uh Ger
German fiscal spending next year really
starts to kick in and that probably
happens whether or not the peace talks
are successful and that's that's going
to be one of the drivers that we think
leads to a better year for for European
corporates. They need it. Europe the
perennial problem in Europe of course is
earnings growth. The main reason why
European equities have lagged for so
long is that the earnings have not been
as good and this year really wasn't that
much of an exception. the markets have
done quite well but earnings this year
in Europe are kind of roughly flat up a
little bit. So again kind of lagging
behind what we see in the US and Asia.
So if the recovery in Europe is going to
continue in terms of the market we do
need earnings growth to come through. We
think it will but we got to watch that
pretty carefully.
>> Yeah Paul, no I take your point. I just
don't know how likely it is Ukraine's
going to seed land in the south and the
east that Russia has failed to occupy
for more than a decade. Right. We'll see
how that works out. But to your point on
geopolitical risk and the fact that the
markets have completely ignored it for
the better part of not just the last
year but the last three to five, talk to
us about how you as an investor position
defensively for some of these potential
VAR shocks that may very well occur in
2026.
>> So as a rule geopolitical risk tends to
get kind of over focused on I think in
in markets and it's hard to find
examples which geopolitics have had a
sort of really lasting impact on
investor returns. There have been a few.
So obviously uh the war in the 70s and
the oil price crisis that followed that
that was a real economic event and a
market event not just a political event.
And then if you had invested in Russia
then the invasion Ukraine also was a a
big deal. You were essentially you know
wiped out overnight a medium-sized
market effectively you know effectively
disappeared. But those are the
exceptions and typically geopolitics
attracts a lot of attention in markets
for a few days and then investors go
back to worrying about the fundamentals
that tend to to drive things. So that's
how we try to see it. It's not to
dismiss geopolitics as as a real event
but in general those things tend to get
overplayed.
>> Paul you mentioned tech is expensive and
that you're kind of pseudo recommending
a sort of valueoriented shift into
healthcare financials and energy. Wonder
if you could expand a little bit about
the commodity complex, basic materials,
you know, mining, you know, talk to us a
little bit about this procyclical shift
and whether or not it can really extend
into some of these pneumont uh, you
know, some of these names that have
really, you know, only this year begun
to wake up to the reality that yeah,
there might be some demand for their
product.
>> Yeah, absolutely. Look, I think the big
picture for us is you want to be looking
for good opportunities across all the
markets and not just get attracted to
the bright shiny thing that everyone
wants to talk about all day but may not
give you the best future returns. We had
a great example of that recently by the
way. So a lot of people put out pieces
on you know what's happened since chat
GPT made 10 times your money in Nvidia
and stuff like that. But if you look at
the other end of the list over that time
period you've lost 80 or 90% of your
money in the co stocks. They were once
the bright shiny thing and of course the
fundamentals didn't follow through.
Attention moved elsewhere. So that's
just a reminder to always be looking
forward thinking about fundamentals and
as you do that I think we think you see
there's lots of opportunities still in
tech of course but it's not the only
thing and we can find great companies at
reasonable prices in lots of different
parts of the market. You know
specifically in commodities yes you've
got the demand dynamics. One of the sort
of longerterm positives there too is
that commodity companies including many
in the energy sector too have in recent
years been paying much more attention to
their shareholders and perhaps been less
focused on kind of aggressive capex and
expansion at at at all costs. So
buybacks, dividends, better balance
sheets, all of those give you a much
sounder basis to make an investment in
those companies. And when the macro does
come in your favor, then of course you
make a lot of lot more money and you've
got more chance of keeping it as well.
Paul Quincy of Chief Market and Asset
[music] Management. Thank you so much
for being with us this morning. Happy
holidays. Have a great break. Really
interesting. The commodity is definitely
going to get a a boost. Shiny [music]
new thing.
>> Yeah. No, all that glitters is gold.
>> Yeah. Well, evidently coming up, we're
going to be talking about with Scaloo of
Bank of America with investor sentiment
at its highest level in over 4 years.
[music] Plus, Yahand with your morning
movers. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> Seeing a bit of softness ahead of the
open ahead of that key economic data
that we've had to wait quite a bit for.
We were supposed to get this before
[music]
the previous Fed meeting last week.
Instead, it is jobs Tuesday. We do have
right now a little bit of a soggy feel
ahead of the open down 210 of a percent
on S&P futures. That dollar weakness
continuing with euro at 11755.
yields just slightly higher, although
really not much action in the yield
space. A real question about if you do
get some sort of dovish tilt on the
heels of this jobs report from the Fed.
Is that going to be good or bad for
long-term bond deals, Damen?
>> Well, I think you're talking about
global central bank activity and whether
or not all central banks follow the Fed.
And really, the answer is no [music]
this time around. I mean, we still see a
number of central banks cutting rates.
We're going to see another five this
week like Chile, Mexico. I mean, the UK
is going to be cutting rates, but you
know, a lot of central banks that have
been actively uh easing policy [music]
are now on hold. then they're kind of
shifting to more of a hawkish bias.
That's very different than what we're
seeing [music] here in the US.
>> Yeah. And part of this is because what
in the US we're fueled also by the idea
of oil prices coming down which we see
today with oil prices coming to the
lowest levels going back to [music] May.
Three hours away from the cash open.
Here are your morning movers with the on
antihra. Hi Lisa. We have some sellside
action moving stocks this morning. We
start with Roku. Shares are up 4.6% 6%
on a double upgrade by analysts over at
Morgan Stanley [music] from underweight
to overweight and setting the price
target at $135.
And the call is all [music] about
advertising. They're saying that 2026
will be a strong year for ads in the US
and that connected TV stands to [music]
benefit the most. Meanwhile, moving on
to Southwest, the airline uh shares are
up 2.5%. Barclays raising the stock to
overweight and setting a price target of
$56. The upgrade follows comments from
CEO from the CEO just last week talking
about Southwest pursuing airport lounges
echoing what JetBlue is doing with their
first ever lounge. So this just showing
us how these more economic carriers uh
[music] continue to double down on the
premium travel. And we end on B Riley
Financial. The stock is soaring 26%
[music]
in the pre-market after it filed a long
overdue earnings report in an important
step that will keep the [music] stock
from getting delisted from the NASDAQ.
The filing follows months of pressure
tied [music] to soured investments and
flaws in its financial reporting. But
it's not in the clear just yet with
another looming deadline in January.
[music] Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yahara on our radar
this morning. President Donald Trump
signing signaling the end of the war in
Ukraine is closer than ever after
negotiators offered KV significant
security guarantees that will be legally
binding once voted on by Congress.
Meanwhile, over in the auto space, Ford
taking a 19.5 billion dollar charge as
they pivot away from electric trucks to
focus on gas and hybrid models. This
comes as European Union is softening
emissions rules, scrapping an effective
ban on combustion engines. And it kind
of goes to this question, Damen. How
much is this because the subsidies were
withdrawn from the United States? How
much is this because the mood has
shifted and it shifted away from EVs and
back to the combustion engine?
>> Well, Ford 5-year CDS is down just 30
bips from its mid-occtober peak. And
look, the reality is, you know, yeah,
this should get its EV operations
profitable by 2029. So, I guess from a
operator standpoint, it is a good thing.
But cancelling its electric F-S series,
I mean, I'm heartbroken about that. You
know, I was really looking forward to uh
getting in one of those at some point in
my life, but looks like I'm not going to
make it.
>> It seems like it wasn't going to be
profitable, and it certainly wasn't
going to be without the subsidies. And
it definitely speaks to what is the
future for some of these more renewable
energies at a time when some of the
previous investments really just are not
affordable anymore.
>> And the EU is abandoning its emissions
ban, right, for new uh for new cars,
right? I mean, so it's well, it's
softening the rules, right? So, um so
yeah, I mean, look, it looks like uh all
clean energy things are going in a
different direction at least today.
>> Yeah. Meanwhile, on the smartphone side
of things, global smartphone shipments
expected to take a major hit next year.
According to Counterpoint Research,
output could decline by over 2% as a
shortage of memory chips is expected to
drive costs higher. So, pause. Because
of AI and the buildout, all the chips
are going to data centers. They are
prioritizing that type of technological
advancement over what you have in your
pocket every single day. I just wonder
how much this is going to increase costs
and how much this really speaks to a
mismatch in demand and supply when it
comes to some of the new technology.
>> Well, I mean, I don't think that the
overall rise in the cost of components
is really going to impact the majors
like Apple and Samsung, but you know,
these smaller phone makers, some like
Chinese phone makers, for example, like
Honor Device and Oppo are are certainly
at risk here if they can't get their
hands on chips and the components they
need to to to increase their revenue.
>> Meanwhile, people are still all
optimistic. Turning to markets, Bank of
America releasing its December global
fund manager survey showing macro
optimism at its highest going back to
2021. Joining us now is IAS Galoo of
Bank of America. IAS, great to see you.
Thank you so much for being with us.
Let's start on the cash holdings. The
idea that cash allocations fell to 3.3%,
the lowest in Bank of America's global
fund manager survey. How much of a
contrarian indicator do you see this as?
This is a very contrarian uh indicator,
Lisa. Look, I mean just a bit of context
on the uh FMS cash levels which fell to
a record low 3.3% today. This series is
one of the most important of the fund
manager survey. Uh it has been around
since 1999. So we are able to track
several cycles through this series and
even at the height of the internet
bubble at the height of the subprime
bubble and during the bond bubble of the
post GFC era the uh FMS cash level did
not drop to the level it did today 3.3%
which is just strictly speaking and
focusing on this metric this is a very
bearish contrarian signal and we back
tested this series since over the past
25 ers whenever the cash level fell to
3.6% or below the average four-week
return for global equities has been
minus 2% and over eight weeks it's been
uh global equities were flat.
>> How do you square with this with the
idea that people are really optimistic
about 2026 returns? Is it consistent
given the fact that we might see sort of
meandering stock returns heading into
year end? kind of what we're seeing this
morning. But next year, people will see
that fiscal stimulus come in, that
monetary stimulus come in, and it will
really support this sort of broader
story that people seem to be leaning
into.
>> I think if we had to define the 20 the
December 2025 fund manager survey, it
would be the most bullish survey of this
AI bull market. And the culprit of this
palpable bullishness is the expectation
of run it hot policies. FMS investors
look at the Fed. They know and are
convinced that the Fed under the next
chairman will be much more accommodative
than in the past few years. They note
that there is a big election in the US
on November the 3 next year and they
expect the administration to uh you know
to push a bit further in terms of fiscal
policy and they also you know last
week's announcement from the Fed in
terms of the liquidity back back stop I
think has clearly emboldened uh FMS
investors to increase allocation to to
risk assets because another important
metrics that uh was you know was was
extreme in this survey was the fact that
liquidity conditions were rated as the
most positive
since 2021 and in fact over the past 20
years the liquidity conditions have only
been greater than today at the peak of
the uh uh of the COVID boom in mid 2021.
>> Las long mag 7 and long gold have been
the most crowded trades for the past
three months in a row. Yet at the margin
a small handful of investors are now
they now believe that being short JGBs
and long global bank stocks are the most
crowded trades. So I'm curious, you
know, it's notable given the impending
BOJ rate hike at the end of this week,
the near universal belief that yield
curves are going to steepen across the
globe. I mean, can you provide just a
bit more color on these newly referenced
pain trades?
>> Sure. I think if you look at in in the
details of the fund manager survey, the
one challenge where it's actually tough
to square institutional investor
bullishness is on expectations for bond
yields. there is this big conviction
that bond yields will be higher in 12
months time. This huge conviction net
75% see uh a ste an even steeper yield
curve and then investors are very
bullish uh risk assets. So you know at
the end of the day it's important to
take a step back and look at the big
picture and the most important question
here Damian is can risk assets global
equities US equities that are very rich
in terms of valuation uh withstand 5%
plus bond yields and I I think you know
at this level of positioning at this
level of valuation risk assets will be
struggling if the 30-year Treasury um
exceed 5% which has been a line in the
sand for US policy makers but for now
investors ers prefer to focus on AI, the
productivity gains that AI adoption will
deliver and uh in terms of EPS growth
and this is what they prefer to to focus
on and is also driving their their
bullishness in 2026.
>> I alas despite the proyical rotation
into equities and commodities,
allocation to the energy sector is
nearly two standard deviations below the
20-year average according to your FMS.
Yet with Brent crude now dipping below
$60 this morning and most analysts
calling for it to stay there, is there
any benefit in fading that call?
>> It's one of the big contrarian trades of
uh of 2026 really you know one uh the
energy sector has been has seen a
continuous underweight of FMS investors
and and rightly so. Now I think it's
quite interesting to see the dichotomy
between an increase an increasing
allocation to commodities. The net
overweight on commodities is the highest
since September 2022 but at the same
time a very big underweight on energy
and that dichotomy is explained by the
is explained by the diver the divergence
between metals and energy. I think in
2026 if growth surprises to the upside
as investors expect I think clearly
there is a lot of value in the energy
sectors and probably um you know the the
stronger growth will push uh the oil
price higher.
>> On the flip side how much do you see a
potential contrarian trade in bonds in
particular long bonds? this idea that
maybe people are over their skis with
how much growth could increase and
something's got to give. Either it's
stock valuations or it's uh where bond
yields are and maybe it's the bond
yields uh leading to a riskoff mood some
move something that people are sort of
not positioned for at all.
>> Sure. I mean what you saw this month
Lisa is a very big rotation out of bonds
and also an a big underweight when it
comes to to bonds the biggest
underweight since October 2022 when the
move index was above 160 i.e
rate volatility was a lot higher than it
is today. Look what is happening at you
know in this in this morning in the US
there is a big macro news the uh the
November um you know job jobs report and
if that report surprises on on the
downside with a very weak payroll or
even a negative payroll I think you know
that's the pain trade of the day it's
going to see uh bond yields sharply
lower and what I think is the biggest
pain trade of macro investors a
flattening of the yield curve. Yeah,
>> Elias Kaloo of Bank of America, thank
you so much for being with us this
morning. Really interesting that survey
uh especially in light of sort of tepid
enthusiasm right now at least in futures
at the same time paired with
unbelievable raging optimism for 2026.
>> Well, I mean what we didn't ask was that
the AI tech bubble now for three months
in a row has been the biggest risk uh
facing investors. But the biggest jump
uh this last month was private credit,
right? Um so you know what about private
credit? What about you know these
continuation funds? what about all the
issues that are going on in that uh in
that less uh less transparent more
opaque you know universe and and I think
that's a terror risk that a lot of
investors should be focused on here
>> IAS's uh partner Michael Hartnett said
that you've only seen this level of
optimism in this survey eight other
times in this century right now let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
here is your bloom brief with the Anna
Jihara hi Lisa the manhunt for the
shooter who killed two students at Brown
University is entering [music] its
fourth day Rhode Island governor Daniel
McKe and other officials have said
there's no clear security camera footage
from the building where the shooting
took place, which has hampered the
[music] search. The FBI is offering
50,000 a $50,000 reward for information
that leads to an arrest and conviction.
[music]
Meanwhile, Open AAI's deal to license
characters from Disney for its Sora
video app is entirely in stock warrants
rather than a cash licensing fee.
[music]
That's according to people familiar.
Last week, Disney announced it would let
OpenAI pull from its library of [music]
more than 200 characters and creatures
while agreeing to take a $1 billion
stake in the company. And PayPal has
applied to become a bank in the [music]
US. The payments firm is looking to take
advantage of the Trump administration's
openness [music] to fintech companies
entering the banking system. The company
says if approved, a PayPal bank would
help strengthen [music] its lending to
small businesses. That's Brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Hire up next,
counting down to the jobs report.
>> Payrolls we think are weak and and we
think the risk is on the downside. Cher
pow is warning us, you know, don't pay
too much attention to the unemployment
rate.
>> Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research joins us
next to tell us just how much attention
to pay to the unemployment rate and
other aspects of this report that could
be potentially telling given the fact
that it's going to be messy and it is
late. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> a soft tone to start the week. I start
the uh last week of the trading year and
we're continuing [music] that this
morning with uh futures lower pretty
much across the board. Two ten of a
percent decline on the S&P futures.
You're seeing a similar decline on the
Russell 2000. The NASDAQ
underperformance ongoing down 310en of a
percent. When you take a look at the
bond space, not getting a [music]
reprieve here, and this is sort of the
key, the idea of this incredibly
accommodative backdrop that Elas Galoo
was talking about this morning, some
questions about how persistent that can
be with the 30-year up [music] toward
that 5% level as he was saying, 4.85%
even with the 2-year at 3 12%. One thing
that's notable, and Damian, I'd love
your thoughts on this. The idea that
when we started this rate cutting cycle
by the Federal Reserve in September of
2024, 10year and 30-year bond yields
were lower than they are right now. Is
there an indication in what that's
saying? Well,
>> I think, you know, it really for me it
comes down to broad dollar weakness,
right? I mean, look, as the carry trade,
as we rightly point out, we were talking
about offline, you know, with US yields
now coming off, you know, is the US
still an investment currency or now is
it a funding currency? And I think that
remains to be [music] seen. We got some
weak data out of Germany last night. And
I think Euro dollar that cross rate is
going to be absolutely critical and the
data out of Europe [music] is going to
be absolutely key to the direction of
the dollar and the durability of this
dollar weakness over the course of the
next year.
>> The data out of the US also would have
been important had we gotten it. We're
finally going to be getting some of it
under surveillance this morning counting
[music] down to the jobs report.
Payrolls we think are weak and and we
think the risk is on the downside. Sher
Pal is warning us, you know, don't pay
too much attention to the unemployment
rate. I think once we get the December
data, we'll get a better reading. The
risk is the labor market though. So the
there you could see a little bit of
weakness persisting.
>> Here's the latest. November payroll is
due out in just under 2 [music] hours.
The median estimate in our survey
calling for 50,000 jobs added. What this
means though, pick five people, you get
five different answers. Stephanie Roth
of Wolf Research expecting a higher
number, 70,000. Stephanie joining us
now. Stephanie, great to see you. Thank
you so much for being with us.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Um so what are we focused on? Is it the
unemployment rate? Even though Jay Pal
said please ignore the unemployment
rate. It's probably going to be the
private payroll's numbers because the
unemployment rate might be complicated
because if you if you think about the
the household survey this time part of
the survey week it was still the
government shutdown. Some people might
say they were unemployed even though
they pro they shouldn't have given they
worked for part of the week. So it might
there might just be some unusual amount
of noise and and BLS had flagged that
there's going to be a little bit more
error just given some of the
complications with the shutdown. So the
private pay perils is going to be thing
to watch. Government payrolls is going
to distract from the headline number. So
we have to watch for the the private
number for both October and November
will be interesting.
>> Do you think that this market could be
caught off sides or do you think that
this number is so messy as to be
rendered useless once people digest it,
trade around it, freak out and then by
the end of the day things kind of go
back to where they were before?
>> Yeah, I think the ultimate reality might
be it's not so important, but there's
going to be a lot of key details that
we're going to learn about. The private
numbers is going to be critical. We're
going to be watching the cyclical hiring
within the service sector because that's
what's been notably weak. Retail is
we're going to have to watch closely
because that might face some seasonal
issues just around this holiday season
might not be as strong for hiring as it
typically is just because retailers a
little bit more cautious. So there
there's going to be a lot of details to
sort of parse through, but we're there's
going to be a lot of information. We're
going to be watching that quite closely
to gauge to what extent the hiring might
actually be starting to pick up.
Stephanie, I caught you on the real
yield a few weeks back with Scarlett Fu
and you seemed relatively bullish on the
US consumer as we turn into 2026. I'm
curious, you know, I mean, consumer
sentiment is now hovering near its
lowest level since 2009. I mean,
American households view of their own
personal finances are at near all-time
lows. How bullish are you on the US
consumer here?
>> I'm actually pretty optimistic. This is
an affordability issue, not necessarily
a rate of growth issue. So, inflation
has slowed down. And of course, it's not
2%, but it's it's, you know, running
around 3%. It's not uh growing as high
as it was in 2022 and 2023. This is an
affordability issue. Price levels are
high, and that's something that people
are unhappy about. However, they're able
to largely afford, at least the middle
to upper end consumers, largely able to
afford most things even though they're
unhappy about the level of prices. And
on top of that, we're going to have a
decent amount of stimulus hitting the
consumer in the first part of the year.
If you think about the the stimulus from
one big beautiful bill, it's going to
hit around tax season. No tax on tips,
no tax on overtime. That's going to be
some decent amounts of tax returns
hitting the consumer.
>> You know, in last week's uh Fed survey
of economic projections, they increased
their 2026 GDP by I think 0.8% without
increasing their projection for the
unemployment rate, which means it's all
about productivity gains next year. Talk
to us about that. Do you think that the
Fed is a little bit too rosecolored
glasses about the impact of productivity
gains on GDP in the new year?
>> Yeah. So, we we you have to knock off 20
basis points from their upward divisions
on GDP for the government shutdown. But
even beyond that, they did upgrade their
their GDP numbers, unemployment rate,
the same. I think that they're a little
optimistic on productivity. I'm not at
least I'm not quite as optimistic on
productivity. I think what we'll see
though is an economy that's growing
fairly well. They'll just need to be a
little bit more job gains to get there.
And our sense is that adoption rates in
terms of pro in terms of AI won't be as
strong uh as maybe many people are are
thinking about it. It'll happen a little
bit more slowly such that we'll actually
see just a pick up in hiring which is
not such a bad thing.
>> We were just speaking with Ellias Kaloo
of Bank of America and he said that
there's a real dissonance here between
yields and the long end that are close
to 5% this bullish feeling that people
have about the economy and how fast it
can grow. Do you see the same thing that
there seems to be some sort of mismatch
between the level of benchmark yields
and how fast the economy can grow when
people are talking about stimulus
despite the fact that long yields have
risen? Yeah. I mean, so that that is
that is a bit of a challenge for for
next year. One of uh the pieces of our
outlook when rates when the 10-year
yield was closer to 4% was an easing of
financial condition should help to
support the economy. That's largely
faded to some extent now that you've
seen yields back up. Our sense is that
we'll we'll get um you know that that
will sort of take a little bit of the
the shine off of next year, but I don't
think it will be that massive because
there are a lot of tailwinds supporting
the economy for next year on top of the
the fiscal stimulus that will start to
hit. You have uh investment that will
start to hit FDI pledges
>> core inflation.
>> Exactly. So there there are a lot of
different tailwinds that sort of support
the economy even though you have seen a
bit of a backup in rate. So the the more
cyclical interest rate sensitive parts
of the economy might still struggle.
housing in particular.
>> How much is a sort of bullish feeling
predicated in the idea that there is
going to be I want to say a political
tilt to the Federal Reserve and some of
its actions with respect to supporting
valuations and thinking about how the
balance sheet might be deployed not just
for T bills but also on the long end of
the yield curve. This idea that if
yields rise to enough well there is the
ultimate Fed put especially in 2026.
>> Yeah. I mean I think that was some of
the excitement after the the FOMC. For
me, that is not a a fundamental reason
for why I'm optimistic for next year.
That to me is actually kind of
concerning and and depending on how this
all plays out, it could result in just
upward pressure on on the long end of
the yield curve, which is not not a good
scenario. Uh I don't think that they
will end up really driving the the
backdrop that much. I think what we'll
see is let's say it's ends up being a
chair hasset at the margin. Maybe that
ends up being one more cut than would
otherwise be the case. I don't think it
will be that dramatic in terms of what
the Fed end up doing. the the the the
key drivers of a strong growth backdrop
is less tied to the Fed and more about a
gradual cyclical pickup in the economy,
tariff uncertainty starting to fade, the
fiscal starting to play out in the
beginning part of next year, and less
about the Fed.
>> Stephanie, do you do you still believe
that the reflation concerns that the
currently gripping the market are
overdone? I mean, do you still expect
core inflation decline to decline in the
new year? And if you still do, what are
the drivers of that?
>> Yeah, I do. I think we're going to see
inflation start to to cool down.
>> So, housing is a big one. uh we'll see
you know rent and oar they might bounce
a little bit uh in this week's CPI but
our sense is it will gradually move
slower throughout the course of next
year on top of that goods inflation
should start to cool a little bit that
has been held up by tariffs maybe not in
Q1 but maybe throughout the course of
next year there's just a a number of of
sort of components within the CPI that
are just starting to normalize in which
case we'll end up in a in a CP in a in a
growth backdrop where CPI is to seven by
the end of the year and then slowing
below 2 and a half% by 2027 Devin
Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research. Thank
you so much for being with us. Have a
wonderful holiday season. And this
ultimately this disinflation is the
reason why people are looking at the Fed
and seeing them completely sort of not
completely but largely dismiss inflation
as the pre-minent concern and overweight
the labor market.
>> Healthare costs. I mean that's going to
be a big one if Obama gets if the
Obamacare gets repealed. I think auto I
think shelter costs are still going to
have pressure to the upside. I'm
actually taking the other side of that
trade, but that's just me. I'm just
>> I think there are a lot of people who
would agree and I think that your point
about uh Obamacare is actually a
significant one. How much does that eat
into some of the candy that you're
getting from the uh the one big
beautiful bill and some of the stimulus
payments? This is something people are
psing through right now and we'll
continue doing so as markets try to find
their footing ahead of next year. A lot
of optimistic feelings not necessarily
playing out in markets right now. Now
coming up next, Lucy Baldwin of
Cityroup, Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy,
Enu Ayar of JP Morgan, and Mike Pile of
Black Rockck. As we head toward that
jobs report, payrolls Tuesday just
doesn't have the same ring as payrolls
Friday. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
Next year there's more of a reason that
we could see more boarding.
>> I think 26 is going to be more of a year
where you're going to have to really
think about stock selection.
>> Valuations coming down will be a
reflection of a wider uncertainty.
>> This huge run in margin expansion could
[music] come to an end.
>> The pessimism gets wildly bad and then
it gets wildly fantastic again. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with [music]
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Everyone's optimistic for
2026. This according to the Bank of
America Fund Manager Survey. Stocks,
however, not keeping up, failing to keep
the momentum into year end as investors
look for reasons to get more bullish
maybe in the next 12 months. Perhaps
they'll find some reasons with the
release of data. Finally, it's jobs day
Tuesday. Of course, before that, we get
ADP employment. Uh [music] then of
course we do get October retail sales.
What do you look into that given the
fact that it's dated and then on
Thursday CPI Damian we're finally
getting the deluge that we've been
hoping for.
>> Yeah. No, I mean we needed some data to
kind of lean into here. But again, you
know, there's a lot of noise surrounding
all of it. I mean [music] today's
payroll data. I think the market's
completely looked through it. I think
actually retail sales might actually be
a more important driver of people's
models in terms of trying to gauge where
US yields are going to be in the new
year.
>> People always say this. They say the
data is not going to be that important
this time. Then it comes out and markets
go haywire. Seven on unemployment. Here
we go.
>> I mean, right. Exactly. Which is the
bigger potential downside surprise to
markets? If you get an upside surprise
to the unemployment rate or a downside
surprise that raises the question of
just how much the Fed can actually cut
again, if at all?
>> As I said as we opened up today, good
news is bad news for equities, right?
Good economic data is bad news for the
equity market and vice versa. And I
think that theme is really plain
through. It's really shown through in
the last few weeks.
>> And that's what Mike Wilson and Morgan
Semi has been saying. Meanwhile, in the
dollar space, you have seen the
weakening trend [music] reassert itself.
We saw this violent trend after
liberation day in April. Now you're
seeing a sort of a question about
whether we could see a similar first
half of 2026 raising questions about
[music] some of the most popular trades
AI namely in the United States and how
much that is put at risk based on this
move.
>> Yeah, I know exactly. I mean look the
blueberg [music] dollar spot index is
down 8%. DXY is down 9 and a half% this
year. I mean these are huge moves
[music] but you know most of those
losses uh are concentrated in Europe and
Asia. I'm sorry Europe and Latin
America. Asia is only up 2 and a half%
the Asia dollar index. So, you know, you
have to really pick your spots and it's
on the eye of the beholder. If you're a
European denominator, a euro denominated
investor, it just hasn't worked that
well for you investing in emerging
markets and international equities. But
it has if you're a dollar investor
>> and this is a reason why people are
looking ahead potentially to other
pastures heading into 2026 if this
dollar weakness does continue. Right
now, it is on the margins continuing at
least versus the euro at that 117 to 118
mark on the Euro dollar cross. S&P
futures lowering now just by a tenth of
a percent. Maybe people getting more
enthusiastic as they hear Galoo talk
about the low cash holdings of all these
fund managers. [music] 10-year yields
inflected just marginally higher. Still
notable to see. They're almost back to
that 420 [music] mark that we were at
before the press conference by Fed chair
J Powell 41763 and crude falling to the
lowest levels [music] going back to
earlier this year on expectations that
maybe maybe we can get some sort of
peace deal uh with Ukraine and Russia.
Coming up, we've got Lucy Baldwin of
City as investors go just a touch risk
off. Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy as
the healthc care fight continues on
Capitol Hill. And Mike Pile of Black
Rockck is Wall Street eyes a fresh read
on the US labor market. We begin this
hour with stocks edging just a touch
lower ahead of today's jobs report. Lucy
Baldwin, city global head of research is
bullish heading into the new year,
writing, "Further upside is expected in
2026 as earnings growth broadens, but
elevated valuations increase downside
risk." Lucy joins us now. Lucy, this
seems like kind of threading a needle
and thank you so much for being with us.
And we keep hearing this and it's sort
of, you know, diversify, be nimble.
We're a little worried that everyone
else is bullish, but we're bullish, too.
I mean, how do you sort of just frame
your sentiment heading into next year
being bullish when you know how
consensus that is?
>> Yeah, good morning. Thanks for having
me. Absolutely. Look, after a couple of
amazing years for the stock market to be
expecting another good year for US
equities in particular does feel like
it's a high bar, but ultimately what we
feel is that the earnings backdrop for
the S&P 500 looks incredibly strong. We
like many others expect to see the Fed
cutting a couple more times in the new
year and we think that is really quite
bullish really to be cutting into that
recovery. We think you're going to see
the economy do pretty well in the first
half of next year. Again, fueled by that
fiscal expansion, the one big beautiful
bill coming through really helping to
see growth move forward. So, it is a
pretty good Goldilocks type scenario we
think for the equities market. Uh our
view is you've probably got about 10 to
12% of upside for the US S&P uh which is
pretty good. And I think interestingly
we feel the tech leadership will
continue to dominate. But alongside
that, we believe you can see that
broadening both in terms of the US
market itself, but also around the globe
as well. We think you can have another
good year for some of the other stock
markets around the world as well as for
the US. Lucy, just because the Fed is
cutting, do uh the policy rates ease,
right? Does do monetary conditions ease?
And I asked this because even though we
have had 175 basis points of rate cuts
by the Federal Reserve, you've seen
10-year yields actually rise by more
than 50 basis points in that period of
time. you've seen 30-year yields rise by
almost 100 basis points. So, at a
certain point, are we seeing tighter
financial conditions in the margin the
more that some of these central banks
ease kind of creating a little bit of a
fly in the ointment here?
>> Well, at at some stage, you're right,
there is a risk that, for example, the
fiscal situation. If you've got lots of
questions around Fed independence again
coming back on the radar next year, you
could see that bare steepening start to
be problematic for risk assets. But we
think they're kind of like threading the
needle at the moment really in the sense
that you've got this sort of Goldilocks
backdrop of good growth, inflation
that's largely under control. Uh
basically you've got, you know, that
that right mix of drivers. I mean
clearly everybody's going to be watching
certain things incredibly closely in
terms of risks for next year. But I
think if you can see that growth
continue to be strong, corporate
earnings continue to power on, it's
really that ideal scenario where you're
able to actually cut into uh a boom.
Now, it is obviously a bit of a jobless
boom, which I guess is the big question
mark, right? And it's the job side of
the equation that is ultimately allowing
the Fed to be easing into what we think
is actually possibly going to be this
reacelerating growth picture in the
first half of next year, which of course
is really rather unusual. And of course,
let's not forget this year's been pretty
unusual, too. It's been the everything
boom to have had things like the US
equity market up strongly, credit go up
strongly, but then also you've seen
ultimately things like gold have a
phenomenal year up 60%. So, it's been an
unusual year this year, and we do think
it's going to be a delicate path, but
one where you can see that continued
risk on momentum certainly into the
beginning part of 2026. You know, Lucy,
I'd love to talk about gold with you and
precious metals because I I know you
recently had Max Leighton, uh, CD's
global head of commodity research on
your podcast, and, you know, he was
talking about the firm's out of
consensus view on gold in 2026, i.e.,
he's a bit more bearish than the street.
I was listening to you and you didn't
seem quite so convinced. I'm curious,
the structural drivers that are
underpinning the gold bull trade, I'm
talking central bank buying, etc. Do you
expect that to continue or do you see
there room for downside in gold in the
year ahead?
Yeah, look, I think you know Max and the
team uh have got some great calls going
into next year, right? And one of those
calls as you say is this view that
actually the debasement trade has
largely played out at these levels,
right? And yes, you've got the
structural central bank buying story,
but ultimately um there's probably going
to be more upside in some of the base
metals, things like copper, that's the
sort of perfect clean cyclical play if
you like, or aluminium, which is
ultimately competing alongside the data
centers for power. So you're going to
probably see some positive price
momentum there. So we just think there's
more upside in those base metals rather
than precious metals and gold is
obviously uh in that equation. So for us
that that debasement story has obviously
seen a lot of momentum this year but we
think you know our core view is
ultimately that the central bank remains
um independent and very data dependent.
So even if you have a more dovish
backdrop for the Fed next year, we don't
think that debasement trade runs on
materially more. I think you will see
that sort of slow steady
rediversification continuing for central
banks, but I don't think it's
necessarily enough to give gold from
here significant legs as we go into the
first half of next year. So, I would be
with Max and the team in terms of
looking for other metals to really drive
uh some momentum in the first part of of
the new year.
>> Lucy, you and the team at City have been
a proponent of the carry trade, the FX
carry trade for a while now. I think
you're still an advocate of it. Talk to
us a little bit about buying the high
yielding currencies versus the low
yielders. I mean I think nine out of 11
months this year the carry trade has
worked out and worked out well. You know
can this continue? I mean talk to us
about rate differentials. Talk to us
about you know currency investing and
what funding currencies stand out to you
in the current environment.
>> Yeah look I think this is this is a big
question after such a strong year as you
say for sort of EMFX and the carry
trade. I think the conundrum we're all
trying to grapple with is the dollar
right. We've had lots of debates on
this. Dan Tobin, who's our FX strategist
at City Research, he's got a really out
of consensus call for the dollar, right?
So, that's quite interesting. He's much
more bullish the dollar um than than
pretty much the rest of the street. And
it's quite interesting when our US chief
economist Andrew Henhorse has still got
two cuts for the Fed. So, you know what
what I think is quite a useful way of
framing this is looking at what our
macro strategy team says. So Adam
Picket, Dirt Willer, they talk about the
dollar possibly going into next year
almost having a year of three, right? So
some risk that you get some weakness in
the early part of the year as you're
going into those continued cuts that we
think you're going to get out of the
Fed, two more cuts. Um and then they
think you know in that middle part of
the year you're going to see the dollar
strength come back and then maybe to
your earlier question you get some risks
later on in the year on the back of some
of some of the steepening risk in terms
of the back end of the US curve. So what
does that then mean for EMFX? Well I
think as we all know right it's very
difficult for emerging market currencies
to do well when the dollar is uh
incredibly strong. So we're looking for
those moments of of opportunity really
around that dollar backdrop. I think
when you're considering all the
different options for different emerging
markets.
>> Lucy, just quickly here, what's your
black swan event that you're sort of
gaming out that is an outlier case but
could potentially be incredibly counter
to uh consensus?
>> Well, I think the big events that we're
all watching for is around the AI uh
boom. There's the debate, is it a boom,
is it a bubble? We're in the category
that we think even if you categorize it
as a bubble because of the moves we've
seen so far, you still want to own it.
It's still got legs. If you look at the
valuations of the leaders of this uh
boom, we don't think they look
stretched, right? The earnings upgrades
we've seen have been significant. You
know, if anything, people have
underestimated the earnings power of
these companies. And I think even up
until very very recently, it's all
largely been funded out of operating
cash flow from the big hyperscalers. I
know we've sort of entered a new
paradigm in terms of potential risk
because we've shifted from the fiscal uh
boom postco into more of a credit
expansion and everybody's watching to
see where the leverage is building in
the system. But we still feel this has
got legs to run for sure and a lot of
growth. We obviously also think
long-term structurally huge productivity
gains that can be unleashed by AI as
well. So, we're bullish about it, but
we're cautious and we know that
obviously there is risk as other uh
areas of that ecosystem take on leverage
and take on risk. Some of the smaller
names that don't have the operating cash
flows of the big hyperscalers. So,
that's obviously an area where we're
watching for risks to emerge very very
carefully and very closely. Um, but
generally I think you know we're pretty
constructive next year. The other big
macro risks of course we're watching for
are around fiscal. You know we've just
written a piece looking at uh the US
debt uh position an updated piece on the
sustainability of that because again you
know that's something that's going to be
very important for for markets as we go
through 2026. Lucy Baldwin of Cityroup
thank you so much for being with us and
uh that last point that you were making
a real siate one and we'll get to that
in just a moment. Right now let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere. Here
is your bloom brief with Yahara anhyra.
Hi, Lisa. Rob Reiner's son has been
arrested for [music] allegedly killing
his parents in their Los Angeles home.
32-year-old Nick Reiner is being held
without bail. President Trump saying
Reiner and his wife died of a quote mind
crippling disease known as Trump
derangement syndrome. The comments drew
[music] wide criticism. Meanwhile, the
US military attacking three more alleged
drug [music] boats, killing a total of
eight people. The US Southern Command
saying the strikes were carried out in
the Eastern Pacific [music]
at the direction of Defense Secretary
Pete Hegsth. The operation raising
questions about whether the strikes
violate international law and whether
the boats were actually carrying
fentinel. And Ford is taking a 19.5
billion dollars in charges as it pulls
back from electric [music] vehicles.
>> The EV market in the US went from 12% in
the industry to only five. And that that
really in the end was uh the big decider
for us. But look, we're we're going to
50% electric. It just be it's going to
be hybrids and e-revs and electric. It
won't be just pure electrics.
>> Ford is also raising its profit outlook,
saying cost cuts and a shift to more
profitable vehicles are [music] paying
off. Dutchber brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yhira. Up next, a new
fight on affordability.
The Republican legislation that will be
on the floor this week does nothing
to keep health care affordable for
everyday Americans and they know it.
>> Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy joins us
next as we look toward the beginning of
2026. Which subsidies are coming, which
aren't? This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> A bit of softness to start the day, but
really pulling back from some of the
earlier lows. Futures just indicated a
touch lower after yesterday really
having a whipssaw [music] session.
Although, as the session grows older,
really can't keep a good stock market
down. And it seems like it's the story
every [music] single day. Uh almost flat
now on futures. Seeing that dollar
weakness continue uh close to that 1118
mark. Euro dollar 11764. [music]
Yield is marginally higher although
really stable here around the 417 level.
Let's take a look at crude traded on the
NYX. We [music] have seen crude prices
absolutely tumble on a glut of supply
coming from OPEC coming from the United
States. We see a new low since [music]
May for New York trade. True traded on
the NMAX down at $55.98. And a real
question here about how much this is
supporting Damian the idea that costs
are lower that at the pump you've got
$1.99 as President Trump was [music]
saying kind of supporting the
disinflation narrative.
>> Well, more supplies coming online Lisa
if you look at Latam offshore drilling
off off of Brazil shale in Argentina. I
mean you can quantify this and our
friends at JP Morgan have and if you
look at the average price for Brent
crude in 2022 [music]
which was about $100, it's now down to
this year $65. And if you listen to
them, it's going to be $50 [music] to
$55 range next year. So, you know, build
that into your models. And what does
that mean for inflation specifically in
emerging markets? I mean, there's your
growth stimulus,
>> right? And that's the reason why people
keep watching what organizations like
the International Energy Agency, what
they say. They said recently that the
size of the surplus in the oil [music]
market will be a new record next year.
So, really giving a sense that this
could persist. Meanwhile, real question
here about affordability more broadly.
Under surveillance this morning, a new
fight on affordability.
>> In just two weeks,
tens of millions of Americans are going
to experience
dramatically increased health insurance
premiums because of the Republican
refusal to extend the Affordable Care
Act tax credits. The Republican
legislation that will be on the floor
this week does nothing
to keep health care affordable for
everyday Americans, and they know it.
>> Here's the latest. Lawmakers scrambling
to reach a health care solution with
enhanced subsidies set to expire on New
Year's Eve. The House preparing to vote
on a slimmed down health plan this week.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
from the nation's capital. Tyler, just
do we have a sense of what the
ramifications will be should these
subsidies not be extended as widely
expected?
>> Yeah. Hey Lisa, good morning. Well, our
Bloomberg News estimates puts it at
about 20 million Americans that could
see their premium spike if we do go over
this so-called Obamacare cliff and the
subsidies do expire. And at this point,
it does appear increasingly likely
that's going to happen as this White
House has faced political pressure when
it comes to the issue of affordability.
This is really only going to compound it
for Republicans as we head into the
midterms. And that's why we're seeing
right now two efforts brewing on Capitol
Hill to address what uh many have said
is going to be a healthc care crisis for
millions of Americans. On one end, we're
watching this vote that's going to
happen in the House, this Republicanled
package that does not include an
extension of those expiring tax credits
despite demands from moderates that one
should be included. Instead, we've heard
repeatedly from Republican leadership
that the plan put forward doesn't have
those necessary pay fors to offset the
spending. So instead, they're pushing a
separate proposal that does include
plans to lower health care costs through
other initiatives such as regulations on
pharmacy benefit managers. The thing is
that's not actually expected to pass.
It's likely going to fail, which means
that the conversation continues, which
actually leads us to this last minute
meeting that we saw last night on
Capitol Hill among a bipartisan group of
senators. And this is going to be a
really important one to watch because
senators came out and they said that
their goal is to get a plan out this
week but likely not hold a vote until
next year. The proposal on the table
would be a 2-year essentially
retroactive extension to these expiring
tax credits. I spoke to one aid who told
me that maybe this could happen through
some sort of rebate. We're still waiting
on details there, but it would include
those structural changes that
Republicans want to see such as an
income cap or anti-fraud protections.
Lisa, the thing is though, the White
House we know would probably like to see
something different. President Trump has
often said he wants more money going
directly to American consumers. The
thing is he hasn't weighed in directly
on any of these plans or thrown his real
uh realhearted support among any of
them, which means that this debate is
going to continue to drag on. This is
the last legislative session of the
year. Lawmakers aren't expected to come
back here to Washington until at least
January 5th.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you so much for
that. Joining us now, Terry Haynes of
Pangia Policy. Terry, how much are
people counting on the idea that
subsidies are going to fall away and
healthcare costs are going to increase
when they talk about stimulus coming
down the pike uh in 2026?
>> Well, couple of things, Lisa. One is
that, you know, work expands the time to
f to allotted to fill and uh you know,
they've got uh they've got a few more
days here at least or maybe into next
week. So, uh, legislatively speaking,
that's a lot of time. Uh, the the
mishmash of everything that's, uh,
that's in front of them, uh, suggests a,
uh, solution of a, uh, of a small bump,
uh, in the current subsidies, you know,
bump forward into 2026 combined with a
number of other things. Uh, but what
markets ought to understand is that this
is one this is one step in a two-step
game. There's almost certainly going to
be a big beautiful bill 2.0 next year.
Uh I think as early as the first
quarter. Uh Senate Budget Chair Graham's
already been talking about it and
already been talking about the need to
uh to to do some more on Obamacare
subsidies and on Medicaid uh next year.
So, what you're going to see here is a
very interim band-aid solution uh I
think a little bit more likely than not
uh combined with the uh uh the the more
uh likely uh 2.0 solution coming early
next year. So, there's going to be a lot
of volatility in in healthcare stocks as
a result of that, but uh but that can't
be helped. Terry, in yesterday's Wall
Street Journal uh Wall Street Journal uh
interview, Trump stated that he's, you
know, he's not sure if his handling of
the economy yet is going to, you know,
cause the Republicans to win the
midterms. He's all but conceded defeat
there. And I'm curious to hear your
thoughts about this big, beautiful bill
2.0. What type of reforms, what type of
legislation can we expect to find in
that?
>> Well, a couple of things, Damian. First,
uh, you know, I would, uh, I'd suggest
that the, uh, the jobs report may play a
role in deciding what happens, uh, in
the in the Congress this week. Uh, if
the economy looks weak going into the
holidays, I think, uh, there's probably
a a greater desire
uh, to to do something uh, to uh, to
push back against that uh, on health
care precisely for affordability
reasons. Uh secondly, what you have
here, and there's been already been some
discussion on your program this morning
about this, uh is you're going to have a
lot of stimulus happening early in 2026.
On top of that comes to the, you know,
from the 2025 bill. Uh on top of that
comes 2026, which Graham describes as a
little more of everything. A little more
entitlement reform outside of Social
Security other than Social Security, a
little more on Medicaid, a little more
on tax, including expensing, a little
more money for the military. uh probably
something uh if Graham has his brothers
on a minimum tariff uh and I would
suggest a lot more on onshoring
manufacturing incentives because that is
key to uh speeding uh a more robust US
defense industrial base.
>> Sorry, Poly Market uh currently assigns
just a 27% probability that the Supreme
Court is going to vote in favor of
Trump's tariffs. This is down from a
high of 53% just a few months back.
What's the timeline here for Scotas, you
know, to to to give us any color? How do
you believe the market's going to react
if Trump's tariffs are voted down?
>> Well, I think uh Damen, a couple of
things. One is uh I wouldn't rely on
poly market too much. That's uh if
you're sitting around a roulette table,
that's a bunch of people kibbitzing
behind you. So, fundamentally, you know,
so would you rely on them for your
results or for your advice? I'm not
sure. Uh but uh
beyond that, you know, my I firstly I
always push back against the idea that
the court uh uh presumptively rules
against Trump's tariffs. I think that's
based on a uh a flawed assumption that
uh the court doesn't take the economic
emergency seriously. So I think what
happens is uh at the very worst for the
administration, they say they can't uh
put the put the cur the tariffs in place
using that AIPA authority. But there's
plenty of other uh tariff authorities.
Uh secondly, I think they probably give
the Congress some time to to fix the
statute and that's something you can do
also in that 2.0 reconciliation bill.
>> Jerry Haynes of Pang Geopolicy. Thank
you so much for being with us and merry
Christmas. I see the stockings hanging
behind you. Do you trust the people
kibbitzing behind you [laughter] market?
>> Well, I'll tell you this about poly
market. People are risking capital
there. So I whether they're right or
wrong remains to be seen. Maybe Terry
should take the other side of that trade
on poly market. Maybe 27%'s too low.
>> Coming up we'll be talking about M&A.
We'll be speaking with the head of
advisory and a M&A for JP Morgan. This
is Bloomberg.
[music]
A little bit of softness. Although
throughout the session we've seen a bit
more optimism bleed in. Perhaps they
read the Bank of America global fund
manager survey that showed that cash
[music] holdings were down to an
allocation of 3.3% the lowest on record.
What you are seeing is S&P futures
barely lower less than a tenth of a
percent similar declines in the NASDAQ
and Russell 2000. So really pulling back
from some of the uh earlier lows in the
twos, tens, and 30s space. A real
question about what the ramification
[music] bigger risk scenario is from the
non-farm payrolls report that we don't
get on Friday. We get today at 8:30 a.m.
Eastern. Right now, a real expectation
that any kind of increase in the
unemployment rate or decrease in the
private payrolls figure could increase
the chance of a Fed rate cut in January
350 on the 2-year been pegged around
there. We have seen that 30-year yield
continue to climb up just day by day
4.85%. [music]
And if you take a look at crude falling
to the lowest since earlier this year,
[music] falling significantly this year,
22% as we look toward over supply, the
idea that the IEA is saying that next
year the glut in the oil market is going
to the be the most on record. Two hours
away from the cash open. Here are your
morning movers to the Hyra on Antihira.
>> Hi Lisa. Ford is ripping up its EV
playbook and f refocusing on gas and
hybrids and investors are buying the
story this morning with the shares up
one and 1.1%
[music] in the pre-market. That's
despite the company taking a 19.5
billion hit as part of the overhaul
which [music] will include it scrapping
a planned uh electric truck and
repurposing uh [music] battery plant.
Meanwhile, moving on to Zillow shares.
They had their worst drop in 10 months
yesterday and are still falling today
[music] down about 1%. Uh on this report
that Google is testing a new real estate
advertising format that [music] could
compete with Zillow. Uh the report says
that Google is putting listings directly
[music] in search results and putting
full property details along with it.
Meanwhile, uh we end on GAP shares. They
are rising [music] 2.2% 2% on some
sellside action with Wells Fargo
upgrading the stock to overweight and
setting a $30 price target. They're
saying that they're seeing rail momentum
at Old Navy and GAP and there could be
extra upside if tariffs are [music]
repealed. They're also saying that GAP
is one of their favorite long ideas.
Lisa, thank you so much. On our radar
this morning, NASDAQ looking to extend
its trading hours to 23 hours a day. The
firm asking the SEC for permission to
add a trading session from 900 pm to 4
a.m. Eastern. Damen Sassar will be
awake. NASDAQ expecting to be ready for
extended trading in the second half of
2026. Not a huge surprise. I mean, this
is the modern age. Everyone needs to be
doing everything all at once.
>> Well, the New York Stock Exchange is
going to be doing it also. They're all
following in the heels of Robin Hood and
Interactive Brokers. But what's
interesting is, will the DTCC be ready
to clear those trades in time for this
to actually go live in 2026? I mean,
we're talking clearing. This is not
easy. This is hardcore settlement of
huge bog trades. It It's going to be
more complicated than that.
>> Yeah. And if you open, will they come?
Because [clears throat] people maybe are
going to be asleep and then you won't
have the liquidity. Meanwhile, PayPal
applying to become a bank in the United
States. Approval would help the firm
bolster its small business lending
capabilities. The company has provided
more than $30 billion in loans and
capital since 2013. PayPal also looking
to offer interestbearing savings
accounts. I remember when people look to
intermediate the banking sector. Now
they're joining it. Well, this comes on
the hill heels of those preliminary
approvals for those crypto firms, right?
Like Ripple and Circle getting
applications last week. And I think
earlier this year, Sony and Nissan Motor
also applied for and received a banking
license in the US. So legislation is
becoming a little looser allowing some
of these entities to list as a bank here
in the US.
>> Yeah, my oldest son tried to apply to me
to list as a bank and it was rejected.
Open AAI's deal to license Disney
characters for its Sora video app is
entirely in stock warrants rather than a
cash licensing fee. the terms aiming to
align both companies financial incent
financial incentives. Disney is taking a
$1 billion stake in open AI and we want
to stick with the deal picture because
we've got the person who really has the
best handle on this space that is going
to be incredibly active in 2026. Global
M&A transactions rising about 40% to 4.5
trillion dollars this year and the mega
merger landscape could grow even larger
in 2026. Anu Ayangar is JP Morgan's
global head of advisory and M&A and she
joins us now to discuss this inflection
point in dealmaking. Anu, thank you so
much for being here.
>> Happy to be here.
>> So, let's start with just how much more
space there is for the likes of some of
the mega deals that we've heard
announced, how much more appetite there
is in capital markets, and how many
potential contenders there are still out
there.
>> Yeah, it it has been a bit of a roller
coaster ride. Sitting here today, it
looks like a fantastic M&A market. But
if we were having this conversation even
six months earlier, I think the picture
would have looked dramatically
different. We've seen an increasing
trend. Really the conversations in the
boardroom kind of picked up in May and
you saw the printing of the deals happen
August onwards and every month has been
bigger than the previous month to now 70
what we call mega deals, right? Rather
than$10 billion deals, which is an
all-time high. But yet the while the
volumes are 40% up the number of deals
itself has actually been
down right so because of this mega deal
trend that you see having said that what
is driving that why are people focusing
on scale the equity markets have really
given a premium to scale the size of a
company to join the S&P 500 has tripled
the size of a company to join S&P 600
has doubled in the last 5 years. So
that's a pretty dramatic
focus on scale and people are not just
chasing size for the size sake because
it's not any type of scale, it's
strategic scale focused scale because at
the same time that you've seen these
scale transactions, the market has also
wanted corporate clarity. You've seen
spins, splits, reverse morris trust
transactions. So sometimes it can be a
bit confusing, right? Okay, you want
scale, but at the same time, you want
focus. Like, how does the two things
come together?
>> What's fascinating is a lot of people
have taken a look at the M&A schedule
and said, "This indicates CEOs feeling
confident about the economy, feeling
confident about capital markets." The
way you're framing it sounds slightly
different. It's the idea of an opening
to get in on a scale game at a time when
that indicates resilience post pandemic,
post tariffs. The more scale you have,
the more ability you have to negotiate
and be nimble. How is that different
than just screaming confidence about the
economic cycle?
>> No, you're exactly right in that the
driver of it is not I feel good about
the world, let me go do M&A. This the
driver here is very different. The
driver is that scale allows you to have
more control over your supply chain
allows you to get synergy and invest
more in tech capabilities. The amount of
AI infrastructure investment that the
economy has needed is these are big
numbers. So to make this type of capital
investments, companies need
synergies from this combination to do
that. And when the external environment
is so volatile, there's a lot of
uncertainty that hasn't gone away.
Larger companies are able to withstand
the risk in the system better and
navigate it better. So there's a reason
why the market is giving a premium to
scale and that's what people are
chasing. So most of these deals are not
people thought of this deal today. These
deals have been there are files and
binders put together over two 5 years
where CEOs have said this is a company
that we should buy but I don't know
whether they are open. I don't know
whether other people will look at it. Is
it the right time? Will my investors
support it? And these are finally
happening now because there's also an
expectation that in addition to to the
market rewarding scale, the regulatory
environment may be in certain cases
easier to navigate. So you take kind of
the combination of all three factors,
right? External market risk allows you
to navigate better when you have the
scale and market values scale and gives
you a valuation premium which has been
an all-time high. the scale related
valuation premium and a regulatory
environment that may be more favorable
for M&A. Put all of those things and
that's the perfect recipe for the market
that uh that we are in.
>> Anu JP Morgan chief interest rates
strategist Jay Barry is calling for the
Fed to cut rates again in Jan before
pausing to take stock of the economic
outlook. Right. And I'm just curious,
how are interest rate expectations
shaping the boardroom when you're having
uh conversations with JP Morgan's
corporate clients?
>> Yes.
>> So I think this has uh a bit more of a
focus on the private equity community
and sponsor activity for most of the
strategic deal activity that is
happening. There is no dirt of financing
or that is not a big consideration that
interest rates are going to be 25 basis
points here or there because people are
taking a long-term view
>> on what is going to happen in my
industry sector. How do I become an
endgame winner? What are the chessboard
moves on the private equity side? There
has been a little bit of you've seen
that we haven't had as many
monetizations
>> in 23 and 24 and there's a lot of pentup
assets waiting to find monetizations
>> even though at the same time you also
see take private activity right
>> cuz and you may wonder how does it make
sense to do take privates because you
every day you're talking about S&P at
record highs and NASDAQ at record highs
having said that there are some
companies which are at record highs but
there's significant part of the market
which is not they are trading at a deep
discount to the 52- week high and the
scale issue. If you're a sub5 billion
market cap company, there's a lot of
companies in that space whose public
market valuation doesn't reflect their
true value.
>> Well, I know you you mentioned financial
sponsors and I hear you. They are
sitting on record levels of dry powder,
but private credit is consolidating and
private equity fundraising has been
sluggish to say the least. So talk to us
about which sectors are going to drive
the deal cycle as we look ahead to 2026.
>> So these uh mispriced public securities
are still an opportunity. And then
another interesting trend you've seen is
the partial monetization and continued
ownership and every version of that we
were talking earlier about continuation
funds being one element. So this year
20% of the sponsor monetization [snorts]
has been through continuation funds.
Right.
>> And the secondary market has increased
significantly to now you have several
GPS who are raising secondary funds. So
that's going to be a pretty interesting
dynamic, right? Cuz earlier uh there was
a sense that oh you know an asset that I
cannot take public or I cannot sell I
may put in a continuation fund. Whereas
now the dynamic has shifted to some
people saying look this is my best
asset. Why is it that I'm selling that
one and keeping the rest? maybe this is
the one that I should put into a
continuation fund and the amount of
money that is available in the liquidity
in the secondary market is extremely
high. So some very interesting dynamics
happening in the broader private equity
space at the same time when the many of
the private equity companies itself are
transforming. They're all now
alternative asset managers, right? They
are not just in the LBO activity. In
fact, for some of the large funds, LBO
activity is a small slice of what it is
they do and they play across the capital
structure as well. So those that that
has changed the flavor of both
deployment and monetizations. Just
quickly here, Anu, next year, do you
think it's going to be as great as
people think in terms of so much more
M&A volume than it was this year?
Incredible deals activity and a
broadening out beyond the mega deals.
>> So, the momentum is very high and when
we look at our pipelines both on the
strategic side as well as the sponsor
side with the number of companies that
need to monetize, it's very high. Having
said that, there are risks, right? We
are still in the middle of several
geopolitical conflicts.
There has been a favorable environment,
interest rate cuts, all of this that
people are expecting and pricing into
the market and there is also this
question of what happens with the amount
of money that is going into AI. Um I
read a very nice quote from somebody
which said you know AI's new year
resolution is ROI and I was like that's
about time right you think about what is
the return on all this money that you're
putting in what should the KPIs be how
should I measure the impact and result
so there are some things that you have
to watch to see if this trend will
continue but the appetite is there
interest are there and the financing
markets are there
>> anuyangar thank you so much for being
here hopefully we can do this and JP
Morgan's global head of advisory and
mergers and acquisitions here in New
York. Right now, let's get you an update
on stories elsewhere. Here is Yahara
Anand with your blubber brief. Hi, Lisa.
President Trump is classifying fentinol
as a weapon of mass destruction in his
latest push to ramp up pressure on Latin
America over drug trafficking. Trump
allies saying such a move can open up
access to funds appropriated for
detecting and eliminating weapons
[music] of mass destruction. Meanwhile,
Craft Times announcing a shakeup to its
[music] seauite, tapping former
Kellanova boss Steve Callahillain to
take over as CEO on January 1st. He's
[music] stepping in to navigate the
company's massive plan to split into two
separate entities. The move comes as the
food giant struggles [music] to win back
shoppers who are ditching processed
staples for healthier options and
cheaper brands.
And in sports, the Pittsburgh Steelers
beat the Miami Dolphins on Monday Night
Football 28-5.
Quarterback [music] Aaron Rogers had one
of his best games of the season,
throwing for 224 yards and two
touchdowns. [music] The Steelers
improved to 8 and six and remain at top
the AFC North while the Dolphins are
eliminated from the playoffs. The
Steelers haven't lost a Monday night
game at home since 1991. That's your
Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Up next, the labor
market mandate.
>> They will have to [music] keep cutting
interest rates if we don't see any
strength. We expect the October payroll
to show contraction of 60K, [music]
which then rebounds into November, but
that does not paint a very good picture
of the labor market.
>> Mike Pile of Black Rockck joins next.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Well, the longer the session grows, the
more people take a look at stocks to
say, "Well, maybe we still will get a
Santa Claus rally." Right now, futures
had been lower by as much as [music] two
or three uh ten of a percent. Right now,
less than a tenth of a percent on S&P
futures.
>> [music]
>> dollar weakness continuing and building
uh close to that 118 mark on the Euro
dollar cross and 10-year yields [music]
actually now getting a bid uh 4.16%
lower by almost a basis point under
surveillance this morning the labor
market mandate
the Fed's mandate is not what headline
GDP is doing because of all of the capex
investment we're seeing the Fed's
mandate at the end of the day is labor
market they will have to keep cutting
interest rates if we don't see any
strength we expect the October payroll
to show contraction of 60k K, which then
rebounds into November, but that does
not paint a very good picture of the
labor market. [music]
>> Here's the latest. Investors looking to
gain clarity on the Fed's direction in
2026 from the November payrolls report.
Mike Pile of Black Rockck saying
continued softness in some of the labor
indicators could bring another 25 basis
point cut into the mix for January. Mike
joins us now for more. Mike, great to
see you. Thank you so much for being
here.
>> Great to see you. So, I hate to do this,
but is bad news good news for markets if
we do get potentially a 25 basis point
cut in January? I'm sorry. And I'm
sorry, S Kaiser.
So I mean I think what I'd say is you
know listen there is definitely a world
where activity continues to be
relatively on the firm side where the
labor market is comparatively soft and
that opens the door to addition
additional easing from the Fed and
financial conditions and that mix of
relatively firm activity and relatively
easy financial conditions historically
has been positive for markets. Not that
that's going to occur, but there's
definitely a clear pathway to that kind
of outcome as we look forward the next
one, two, three months.
>> Mike, in late October, you made the case
for buying a basket of hedge funds or
hedge fund strategies to build ballast
into into diversified portfolios. And
you and I both know the the the
difficulty with investing in hedge
funds. I'm talking lockups, gates,
subscription fee, everything. Talk to us
about how you would go about doing it.
Are there ETFs? Are there index funds?
Are there easier, less expensive ways
for, you know, a high net worth or even
a retail investor to get access to the
asset class?
>> Yeah. So, I think the key point is to
say diversification is hard in this
environment and on balance, market
neutral strategies can be a key way of
building diversification of portfolios
in a world where traditional
diversifiers like longdated government
bonds may be less reliable. Looking
ahead, there are a range of ways of
doing that. you know, there are liquid
alternative um uh portfolios, there are
kind of more traditional hedge fund
portfolios, but but the key point is
there are range of access points to
finding strategies that are more market
neutral, more geared to this moment uh
in macro. And I think that that's an
important element of what what investors
should be looking for.
>> Mike, dollar weakness. I mean, you you
travel all over the world. I mean, you
speak to some of the biggest largest
institutional investors. We know what
happened post liberation day about the
FX hedging. all the foreign investors in
the US equity market started hedging
their portfolios again. How are they
doing that? Are they using non-deliberal
forwards? Are they using options? Are
they doing it in a conditional way? If
you're an foreign investor and they come
to Black Rockck and they say, "We need
to hedge our exposure." How do you
recommend they do that?
>> Yeah. So, I mean, I think the theme is
is exactly right. And I think what we
consistently hear from investors around
the world is uh we want to maintain our
exposure to US equity markets. We think
that there's something unique that US
equity markets are providing that we
can't source elsewhere globally in
particular a set of technology and AI
exposures. But, you know, we're more
cautious on the dollar and, you know, I
think often times that means that, you
know, they've let their hedge ratios uh
kind of run with the market runup in the
US and it's more just a matter of kind
of getting back to home base with their
traditional hedging programs rather than
necessarily doing something kind of
meaningfully new uh or different. I I I
said would offer one additional point
which is you know I think it's
noteworthy that you know 2025 has been a
year of dollar softness but most of that
dollar softness was built into the first
few months of the year. It's really been
steady as she goes since the summer and
steady as she goes even in the face of
the Fed being kind of more aggressively
priced uh into markets. And I think
that's that's noteworthy. It's
suggestive of something else we've been
saying all along, which is, yeah, the
dollar has been softer, but we shouldn't
overread that. Uh, the the the bid for
US assets, including the dollar on
balance, continues.
>> Well, how much does this really raise a
risk though heading into 2026? The idea
that people have put that story aside of
the dollar debasement trade and really
look toward the AI growth, some of the
strength that we could see in the
economy and the stimulus as being a
positive. Do you think that that is the
trade to follow or do you think that's
the trade to lean against?
>> So I'd say it's it's both and uh
simultaneously
you know a key driver of returns uh in
2025 and likely in 2026 and beyond is
going to be that core technology
exposure that's that core AI exposure
which again rooted in in US equity
markets. At the same time, you know,
particularly with US equity markets and
global equity markets becoming more and
more concentrated, it's important to be
really intentional about how to size
that exposure and build diversification.
And that's why, you know, to your
earlier question, Damian, that balance
between sourcing uh that core driver of
returns around AI, but balancing that
and diversifying that in an intentional
way, including through things like
market neutral strategies, we think is
the right way to be building a portfolio
as you go into 2026. It seems like right
now investors uh think that you can have
your cake and eat it to a bit with the
idea of stimulus coming down the pike
fiscal monetary as well as just a better
thanex expected backdrop for GDP. Scott
Besson talking about three and a half%
GDP growth uh by the end of next year at
the same time that people don't think
that inflation is going to be a problem.
what has to give or is this actually a
correct way of looking at the universe
that you can have growth, you can have
rates at this level without seeing
inflation kickoff or some potential push
back to monetary policy easing.
>> So, you know what I would what I would
point attention to, which is something
we've been drawing attention to, is, you
know, just how unusually wide uh the
potential range of outcomes is on the
macro side. You need to look no further
than the dot plot at last week's Fed to
see how true that is. I mean there's
always you know some divergence of
opinion among members of the FOMC but if
you looked at the dot plot last week
whether it's 2026 2027 or the longer run
really historically wide kind of
variance in terms of where members of
the FOMC think the Fed might go that is
reflective I think of just a broader
theme which is the macro environment is
unusually uncertain the traditional
macro anchors that have undergurted
macro asset allocation are uh are more
unstable than and they have been for
some time. And that's why this kind of
approach of, you know, identifying those
core sources of return like AI, but also
taking a pretty intentional approach
about where the source diversification
in an unusually uncertain backdrop is,
we think, both new and different and
hard, but also the right way to go about
it.
>> Mike Pile, wonderful to see you. Thank
you so much for being with us this
morning. Mike Pile of Black Rockck
joining us here. And that
diversification we keep hearing time and
again. Paul Quincy of JP Morgan saying
the same thing, looking for new sources
to try to counterbalance some of the
overweights,
>> but staying mindful of liquidity, right?
Because I mean it's not I mean it's it's
one thing to say I'm just going to
invest in anything, but the liquidity of
that asset class and building sort of a
liquidity profile I think is absolutely
critical given just how volatility has
come off in in this year and probably
will mainly next year.
>> Right now visibility hasn't been exactly
great, especially without data. We get
some data coming up. We do get that
payrolls report in about 35 minutes
time. Coming up, we got Mandy Zu of
[music] CB SIBO, Michael Collins of PGM
fixed income, Francis Donald of RBC,
Jeff Rosenberg of BlackRock. All
responding to the economic data that we
have been waiting for from New York.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance. Good
morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Payrolls we think are weak and we think
the risk is on the downside.
>> Our own forecast has the labor market
looking quite resilient in 2026.
>> The Fed's mandate is not what headline
GDP is doing. The Fed's mandate is a
labor market.
>> If the labor market is clearly weak, the
Fed's cutting a lot more than what's
priced in.
>> The Fed is not going to solve the labor
market.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
30 minutes to go until we get the data
that we've been waiting for for more
than a week. Good morning. Welcome back
to Bloomberg Surveillance. Everyone's
optimistic for next year. This according
to the Bank of [music] America fund
manager survey. Stocks haven't been
keeping up. They're sort of flirting
with momentum this morning into year end
as investors look for a show me moment.
Perhaps they'll find a show me moment in
the data. Finally, we are going [music]
to be getting that non-farm payrolls
report. Of course, we're also going to
be getting October retail sales. All of
this incredibly dated. Nonetheless,
Damen Sassau, who has been alongside
[music] me for this ride. Honestly, at
least we get something. And I think
that's what a lot of people are looking
for.
>> Yeah, I think the markets have looked
right through [music] it. I mean, if you
check my Aura ring, it's probably I've
been sleeping through most of today. I
mean, I think it's really about options.
It's about volume. It's about
volatility. And we've got some great
guests who are going to tell us all
about what the market's [music] telling
us.
>> Yeah, right now the market's telling us
that it wants to see some action. It is
basically rangebound as we head into
that key question. Right now we see uh
just a little bit of a decline in the
S&P futures lower by less than a tenth
of a percent. Meanwhile, dollar weakness
[music] continues and builds almost at
that 118 level. A bidden to bonds 416
and crude at the lowest levels going
back to uh May. A key round of data on
deck today as we were just talking
about. France Donald of RBC writing,
[music] we expect that 93,000 jobs were
added to the US economy in October for
November. We expect that an additional
89,000 jobs were added. We anticipate
that the unemployment rate will hold
steady. Francis is our guest host for
the hour. Francis, thank you so much for
being here with us.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Great to see you. So, just to start off,
I mean, what is sort of your expectation
and what are the details that are most
important in today's report?
>> Look, there are two jobs for economists
right now. What is non-farm payroll is
going to print on our screens and then
what's happening in the underlying
economy. So, our estimates might sound
really bullish. They're not effectively.
We know that these numbers are probably
overstating to a certain extent. They
will get revised downwards. And we know
that a lot of the job creation is
structural sides. Health care for
example that are adding. If we get a big
number today, it's not necessarily a
reflection that this economy is firing
on all cylinders. And so there's two
jobs. There's of course what the number
will say. We say 90,000. Uh and what's
actually happening, which is probably
the labor market is weakening under the
surface. And what we look at today is
going to be the sum of so much
information from retail sales to
non-farm payrolls to try to give us a
sense of just how much it's weakening
under the surface.
>> I just wonder how much people are going
to look at the data and say, "Hold on a
second. Yes. Okay, we get 50K if that's
what we get." Uh we get this idea of an
unemployment rate rising to 4 and a
half%, but it's so messy that it doesn't
really change anything based on the
other information that we're getting. Do
you think that that's going to be the
narrative coming out of this?
>> Well, it certainly keeps economists
employed. And the number that I keep
thinking about is 40,000. 40,000 is our
estimate of break even employment which
is effectively how many jobs does this
economy need to create and are we
creating more or less than that 40,000.
So every time I see a non-farm payroll
estimate my my guess is is it going to
be above or low? That's going to
actually determine where the
unemployment rate is on a go forward
basis. That's what will ma matter to
Americans to the Federal Reserve and
ultimately to markets.
>> And what about inflation? What about
CPI? We get that print at the end of the
week. And look, I mean we do get another
payrolls print before the next Fed
meeting. I mean, talk to us about the
importance of those two kind of events
between now and middle of January.
>> I'm more focused on CPI because of what
it will tell us as to where we're going
next. But the story with inflation is
really an uncomfortable one. Not because
it's too high or too low, but because
it's kind of stuck in that middle. We
see inflation really navigating around
3%. A little above in the first half of
the year, a little below in the second
half. What do we do with that? Well, it
depends how the Federal Reserve responds
to it. And how do consumers respond to
it? Well, it depends where that
inflation is. is is it going to be in
food prices? Is it going to be in
electricity? Well, that's going to be
more painful for this consumer base in
the US than let's say if it's in autos
or purchases that we make once every
once in a while. So, the composition of
inflation I think is going to become
even more important on a go forward.
>> And a real question here about what
markets are pricing for. Francis Donald
of RBC, you're going to be sticking with
us for the hour. Coming up this hour,
Mandy Ju of SIBO Global Markets with
stocks just edging a touch lower.
Michael Collins of Peach and Fixed
Income as investors await that November
payrolls report. and Jeff Rosenberg of
BlackRock and what the latest data means
for interest rates for the Federal
Reserve. We begin this hour with stocks
looking to avoid a third straight day of
losses. Mandy Shu of Sibo Global Markets
saying despite the recent slide, AI
fears are subsiding within the options
market. She writes, "Even on Friday's
pullback, most of the flow we saw was
investors stepping in to sell
volatility." Mandy joins us now. Mandy,
great to see you. Thank you for being
here. Good
>> to be here. So before we get into the AI
trade and the broader sort of markets,
I'm just wondering how the market is
positioned right now from a derivative
standpoint heading into this labor
market report. What would the bigger
surprise be?
>> I think the the how the positions not
expecting a whole lot from this number.
So if you look for example at our VIX
one day index which tells you how much
volatility is being priced in for the
next 24 hours, it closed at around 12
yesterday. So that's pricing in about a
75 basis point move for today. That's
not a lot compared to how markets
historically have reacted to payrolls,
how they have reacted this year. So, I
think the what the options market is
telling you is that regardless of what
the number says, it's not really going
to change the pricing for the Fed. It's
not really going to change the overall
narrative too much given that part of
this data is stale. Um, and I think the
Fed's going to wait for more data
before, you know, um, the next meeting.
>> What's interesting to me is this idea
that markets are looking much more to
earnings and less to the economy. And we
see that increasingly that this is a
market driven on AI investment and
efficiencies and honestly if you get a
jobless recovery it's not a problem. At
what point does that change or is that
really the new market dynamic?
>> I do think it will eventually change. So
one of the the the key themes that we've
noted for this year is people really
underpricing kind of the macro risk. If
you look at implied correlations in the
market it's at historic low levels.
Basically that's the market telling you
that this year it's all about single
stocks. It's all about earnings
fundamentals. It's all about thematic
trade AI. Um but I think you know and
and it kind of depends on where the AI
trade goes. Uh but I do think next year
if you know as we know labor market is
weakening depending on how much it
weakens could we see more correlation
being priced into stocks that will boost
index volatility that will give you know
higher floor to the VIX. So that's
something that we're watching to see how
much macro risk being priced into the
market versus idiosyncratic risk. Mandy,
we began the conversation by talking
about today's event risk. And you you
referenced the zero day options market,
which by the way is a $2 trillion
market, up 70% year-over-year.
>> Who are the marginal risktakers in that
market? Is it retail? Is it
institutional? Talk to us a little bit
about the read through in terms of who's
actually taking advantage of that market
and what it's telling us.
>> Sure. Um, it's actually fairly balanced.
So from what we see about 50 to 60% of
the flow is actually coming from what we
think are retail investors and 40 to 50%
from institutional investors. And that I
think surprises a lot of people because
index options and options generally um
historically been more thought of as
sophisticated institutional tools. But
one trend that we've seen uh over the
past three four years is retail getting
more and more involved with options and
more and more sophisticated in how
they're trading options. I think a lot
of people have this incorrect assumption
that retail is just using options to
speculate. they're buying options, you
know, take a view on on the underlying
market. But we actually see very very um
diverse strategies being employed, both
retail and institutional through, you
know, spreads, selling spreads for
income. They do sometimes speculate, but
it's it's very balanced. Um, and people
use it for hedging purposes as well.
>> Well, Mandy, you are taking me right to
where I want to go. I mean, these I
mean, Volvo is at historical lows or
near it in in equities and rates and FX,
you name it. But talk to me about the
cost of putting these custom baskets,
these hedge structures on. I mean, in
your, you know, professional opinion,
are they indeed getting less expensive
or there just more option legs to the
custom basket, which is basically
keeping things inflated. I mean, if I'm
an institutional investor and I come to
you and I want to buy some, you know,
recession hedge. Yeah.
>> Has the cost for that really cheapened
in this environment?
>> So, if you look at the cost of hedges,
they have cheapened because overall
levels of volatility have gotten lower.
Uh, where we are seeing hedging demand
is really kind of tactical hedging. So,
going into year end, we've seen really a
pickup in hedging demand. But if you
look longer uh out like say three
months, six months, really not seeing a
ton of hedges being put on in this
environment and the hedge of the cost of
hedges actually fairly low by historical
standards. Um and then when terms comes
to custom basket, that is a theme that
we've seen a lot of people looking to
trade themes in the market in a more
efficient way. Now if you're an
institutional investor, sure you can go
to a bank and get a custom basket on. Uh
but we've gotten a lot of demand is a
more effective way of trading that. So
we actually recently launched last week
our uh magnificent 10 index options
which is an index of 10 tech and AI
stocks that give people a more effective
way of trading that theme. Now it's just
one index, one underlying. Um and for
retail who can't access, you know,
thematic baskets. I think that's also a
great uh tool uh in order to really
trade and and hedge um this tech AI
theme that's kind of on everyone's
minds.
>> Francis, I have to say as I hear Mandy
talk, all I think is no one's worried.
No one's worried. No one's worried. At
least not in markets. And then when I
talk to an economist or someone who's
looking at what's going on in the labor
market, they say, "We're concerned.
We're concerned. We're concerned."
Where's the difference here? Where does
sort of uh where does the gap get
bridged?
>> Well, I think it's how you deal with
uncertainty. So, you mentioned earlier
markets are looking to earnings, not the
economy. I think it's because we have
very little visibility on the economy.
So, what do you do when you don't have
full information? Well, economists like
to worry about the risks to one side or
the other. But if you're trading, if
you're taking a market position, then
that tells you there's no big bets to be
made in play. So, it's the same state of
play. It's not, in my opinion, that
everyone is reading the information
differently. It's what your job is and
how to react to it and what your
position in uncertainty really looks
like. And if it is a single stockhed
market, Mandy, just to finish here, is
this a more stable market, one that's
actually looking more at the
fundamentals or is it a meme stock craze
market that's driven by what people are
reading on Reddit?
>> So, it's it's not meme stocks, I think,
where we're seeing the option activity.
It's it's it's not it's it's not pure
speculative. Uh but in terms of you know
is is this more constructive certainly
if it lasts right so the high dispersion
low correlation environment is dampening
index volatility it is one of the
drivers of why the VIX is so low or has
been so low this year April
notwithstanding um but as we saw with
April things can change very quickly so
what happened in April we had a big
catalyst big shock markets repric very
quickly we had significant increase in
correlation levels and that drove you
know the VIX over 50 so as we head into
next year could that change could as as
economies starts to weaken. If it
weakens, I would expect higher baseline
volatility, higher demand for hedges and
higher levels of correlation that could
all really um you know keep the VIX
elevated.
>> Mandy Zoo, great to see you. Thank you
so much for being here. Mandy Zoo of
Zebo Global Markets. Thank you. And of
course, Francis Donnell will be staying
with us through the hour. Right now,
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere. Here is your Bloommer brief
with Yahara on it. Jihara.
>> Hi, Lisa. The manhunt for the shooter
who killed two students at Brown
University is entering its fourth day.
Rhode Island Governor Daniel McKe and
other officials have said there's no
clear security camera footage from the
[music] building where the shooting took
place, which has hampered the search.
The FBI is offering a $50,000 reward for
information that leads to an [music]
arrest and conviction. Meanwhile, the
European Union will effectively end an
upcoming ban on combustion engines.
sources telling us here at Bloomberg,
the European Commission will lower
requirements that would stop sales of
new gasoline and diesel [music] fueled
cars in 2035. The new rules will allow
for plug-in hybrids and electric
vehicles with fuelpowered [music] range
extenders. And PayPal has applied to
become a bank in the US. The payments
firm is looking to take advantage of the
Trump administration's openness to
fintech companies entering the banking
system. The company says if approved,
the PayPal bank would help strengthen
its small business [music] lending cap
capabilities. That's brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Yhierra. Up next, the
morning calls, plus the latest ADP
employment data set to cross in about 2
and a half minutes. Michael Collins of
Pum Fixed Income [music] with us to
break down those numbers and preview the
payrolls report on deck in about 18
minutes time. From New York City, this
is Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> There might just be some unusual amount
of noise. There's going to be a lot of
information. We're going to be watching
that quite closely to gauge to what
extent the hiring might actually be
starting to pick up. There are a lot of
different tailwinds that sort of support
the economy even though you have seen a
bit of a backup in rates. So the the
more cyclical interest rate sensitive
parts of the economy might [music] still
struggle. Housing in particular. That
was Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research as
we await a key slate of economic data
after waiting for so long for that
information. [music]
The expectation for non-farm payrolls is
50,000 on the headline number. People
are expecting the unemployment [music]
rate to rise to 4 a.5%. Meanwhile, what
we are seeing in markets, a little bit
of softness, at least in the equity
space, a little bit of a bid into bonds
as the session grows older. Not exactly
an incredibly dramatic morning, a little
bit of dollar weakness, [music] but
crude very much front and focus with
prices down to the lowest levels going
back to May, down 1.7%. [music]
Francis Donald here with us uh for the
hour. and Francis, we've been talking
about how it's really a muddled moment
given the fact that the data is
something you can choose your own
adventure with and it seems hard to get
a clear narrative on.
>> Yeah, I think we're really used to in
the past several decades having a clear
business cycle. We go through a
recession, we go through a boom, we go
back into a recession, but we're not
operating in that type of economy
anymore. This is a supply driven, less
interest rate se sensitive type of
economy that is going through a myriad
of crossurrens from mass retirements to
tariff shocks. So, if you're looking for
a clean read, you're not going to get
one. You kind of have to work through
lunch and realize that there's many sub
themes. For investors, that's a good
deal. It means that there are
opportunities as well at risks in every
headline number, but it means we
probably can't put too much weight into
anything, even an NFP, which of course
will get a myriad of market reactions.
Uh, but the data is going to tell us one
story and the true economy is another
one underneath the surface.
>> Yeah. And then another one is the
corporate story. We do have some
economic data. Before we get there, time
now for the morning calls. First up,
Bank of America upgrading UBS to buy,
believing it is set to grow EPS at the
fastest sequential pace of any bank.
Those shares up to two and a half%. Next
up, Morgan Stanley double upgrading Roku
to overweight, predicting growth will
accelerate in 2026, likely ahead of
consensus. And [music] finally, Mizuo
raising its price target on Tesla to
$530, seeing better investment investor
sentiment on robo taxis. Turning [music]
to the economy as we were just saying,
ADP just crossing with the latest number
and Bloomberg's Michael McKe here with
the numbers. Mike, what do we see?
>> Well, perhaps the least anticipated
number of the day, ADP's weekly job
survey says that in the four weeks uh to
November 29th, the economy added an
average of 16,250
jobs. That's a significant increase over
the 2750
for the week before. But uh this is a
new indicator at least as far as
releases and it doesn't seem to have
much of a track record in predicting
anything. Of course, it's been mostly
out since we haven't been getting
government data. Uh so it doesn't uh
isn't clear that this is going to mean a
whole lot, but that's the number for
those of you who are tracking it.
Michael Vicki, stick around for the
other numbers that we get, including
non-farm payrolls from uh November, but
let's just stick with the labor market,
especially ahead of that data, Michael
Collins of Pim Fixed Income. Joining us
now, uh Mike, first of all, how do you
handle this ADP weekly number? Do you
just completely discount it or is it
something that increasingly you put into
your dashboard? No, it's it's great,
Lisa, to have uh you know, more
concurrent data, more timely data like
the weekly jobless claims is something
that, you know, for 30 years I've always
been analyzing and yeah, you do a maybe
a four-week moving average, but you
know, the more timely the data, the
better. And obviously the market there's
been a der of timely uh data. So So all
the data is welcome. As you know, we and
an economist and the Fed kind of take
the whole cacophony of data, put it
together, and try to come up with a
direction for the economy, a direction
for the labor market, a direction for
inflation, right? And and it just feels
like the direction is is very uncertain
right now, even though, you know, I kind
of expect the labor market to show
continued weakness uh notwithstanding
the ADP little pop we got this morning.
And, you know, inflation probably to
continue to moderate a little bit,
right? So those are generally good
conditions uh for the Fed and for
financial markets.
>> Well, Michael, I mean, given the noise
surrounding the headline number today, I
mean, talk to us. I mean, what are you
focused on? Is it private payrolls? Is
it is it average hourly earnings? Is it
is it retail sales? I mean, what are you
going to be really focused on here at
8:30?
>> Yes. Yes. And yes. Right. I mean, it's
we have like a it's like a holiday
parade of of data, right? And the
question is at the end, you know, do you
see Santa Claus or or the Grinch? And
you know, right now it's you have to
look at all of it. the the the consumer
is super important here. So all the
retail sales data and obviously you know
we have you know hundreds of analysts
who are parsing all the actual
underlying bottomup retailer reports uh
every day and you know you're continuing
to see actually probably an acceleration
in this K-shaped economic behavior right
where the wealth effect is driving half
of GDP right now the other half of GDP
for what it's worth is driven by you
know tech and AI related capex so the
the US economy is basically uh running
on a pretty fragile two-legged stool,
right? So, those are really important
factors that we're trying to assess and
looking for cracks in. Uh the weaker
sectors of of the consumer are really
showing continued signs of of weakness.
So, that's really important. You know,
the the jobs data is really important
because it's a reflection of the broad
base of of consumer demand. And it looks
like, you know, based on anecdotal
evidence, you're seeing, you know,
layoffs announced every day by by big
companies and and all this data that
we're getting, it's just looks like the
the labor market, you know, job growth
is going toward zero. Michael teams,
everyone in their grandmother is calling
for the US Treasury curve to steepen in
the year ahead. You know, I'm just
curious, a steeper yield curve. What
does that mean for foreign investment?
Do you think foreign investors are going
to find value in the US yield curve if
it steepens or continues to steepen at
the current pace? Yeah, you know, I I
always push back on on this uh narrative
that the yield curve is going to, you
know, steepen on it on its ear, right?
That the front end will come down and it
has come down, right? The Fed has cut
almost 200 basis points already. So,
you've had a pretty big steepening uh in
the yield curve. 230s is actually very
steep right now. Uh but a lot of people
think, oh, the Fed's going to keep
cutting, especially if you get a a newly
more dovish Fed FOMC committee. the
front end maybe goes down. Instead of
stopping at three, it goes to two and a
half. And that hurts the back end. That
causes the back end to go up. And and I
push back on that for the reason you
just stated when the curve is that
steep. Now, this is a little, you know,
inside the yield book baseball kind of
stuff. the roll down you get, the
returns you get by owning those longer
duration bonds as they turn into lower
yielding bonds, they actually have
capital appreciation and and those
expected forward-looking returns become
so big and powerful and the bond market
becomes a tailwind. When you have a
steep yield curve, it will bring in
buyers, right? And we've already seen
the last handful of auctions we've had
have actually been, you know, solid, if
not outright strong, right? I mean, we
still have some of the highest yields in
the world, uh, in the US relative to,
you know, China and Japan and and
Germany are, you know, their yields are
half or less than half of ours, right?
And those are the big bond markets in
the world. So, so yes, it will bring in
foreign buyers. It will bring in US
buyers. will cause US investors to add
duration, to add interest rate risk, to
go from a one and two duration bond
portfolio, which is where a lot of high
net worth and and retail investors are
are kind of hunkered down right now to
extend on the yield curve. So, I think
the narrative that the back end of the
curve is going to get killed and and
kind of flail around is is really
misguided.
>> And a lot of this also has to do with
inflation and what we see there. And
Francis, I'd love to bring you in here.
We just saw from this ADP data uh that
inflation did come in that wages,
bonuses, and benefits rose 0.8%. That's
down from 0.9%. You're seeing this sort
of very gradual disinflation and not a
lot of wage pressure. How much does that
fortify what we just heard there from
Mike Collins? This idea that you can get
a bid into bonds that some of the
concerns about price stability have been
overplayed.
>> Well, inflation is going to be another
one of these indicators that is neither
here nor there. We see inflation
floating around that 3% level. Now, is
that going to be okay for the Fed? Will
they allowed sub 2% inflation on average
for the decade before the pandemic?
Maybe they'll be okay with slightly
above. As we talked about earlier, it
depend where that inflation is. But
there's probably a floor under how weak
wages can go here because it's our view
that America primarily needs workers,
not jobs. That they're going to come up
against labor shortages more than an
excess of labor demand. And in our view,
that's going to keep a lid under how far
services inflation can fall. And of
course, we still have tariff inflation
coming through from goods. That'll be a
Q1 story. So again, lots of crossurrens
in the inflation story, but where is it
will matter most?
>> Mike, just quickly here before we get
that non-farm payrolls report, what do
you think the asymmetry right now is in
markets for a better thanex expected
number or a worse than expected number?
>> You know, we're certainly bracing uh and
we're positioned for a worse than
expected by by being a little long
duration and being very defensive in in
the credit uh exposure that we have.
Right. Uh the markets, I don't know. I
mean the markets are really good at
being being two-sided here. I think if
you got, you know, an upside number, you
know, the front end would would sell off
potentially, but you know, you have a
lot of, you know, dovish uh aspects to
to the front end as well that are on the
come. I mean, next 3 to 6 months, uh, we
expect interest rate volatility to
increase, right? Because of the
uncertainty of the FOMC composition,
etc., and and a lot of of new fresh data
coming out. Uh, but you know, I I mean
it'd be hard to see the market move a
real lot either way unless it's a
gigantically outsized number.
>> Michael Collins of Pentium Fixed Income,
Francis Donald of RBC, both of you are
sticking with us. And Damian, the idea
of bond market volatility or interest
rate volatility picking up, I mean
picking up from the floor because
ultimately there hasn't been that much
so far this year.
>> Well, here's with Michael. I I will say
this and I'll challenge him a little bit
on 30-year buying and moving out and
along the curve. You know, this isn't
just a US specific phenomenon. We're
seeing two tens 30s steepening across
the whole of DM fixed income, right? So,
you know, steeper curves moving out
along the along the curve. Uh good luck
for investors, right?
>> Yeah. How much how much is this a Japan
story as much as it is a United States
one? Coming up, we are about 4 minutes
away from that key payroll data set. Uh
we will get you the numbers on the other
side. Right now, markets holding their
breath waiting for this key number. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> 25 seconds away from the data release
that we have been waiting for for more
than a week. Right now, this is how the
stage is set. A little bit of softness
heading into this non-farm payroll
sprint led by the NASDAQ. Futures lower
by 2/10en of a percent. Twos, tens, and
30s. A little bit of a mly picture in
the bond space. And the front end just
slightly up on the long end. yields bid
maybe because of Michael Collins with
that 30-year debt yield down [music] two
basis points. Uh right now heading over
to Michael McKe. It is that moment for
the data. Mike, what do you see?
>> Well, hang in with me uh gang because
this is going to be very complicated. We
get an unemployment rate for November of
4.6%.
That's two ticks higher than it was in
September. Four 4.4% and it's higher
than the four and a half that we
anticipated. Change in not there's no
October unemployment. uh rate by of
course uh 64,000 is the change in
non-farm payrolls for the month of
November. In November, the unemployment
rate 4.6%.
Uh let me run through this a little bit
here. What we want to find out is what
happened in October. Uh loss of
162,000 jobs. Uh can that be right in uh
in October? uh they're looking at a lot
of uh federal jobs that went away. Maybe
that that's the 162,000. Let me just run
through a couple other things here, then
I'll check all of these numbers. Change
in private payrolls November, 69,000
positive. Manufacturing payrolls down by
5,000. Average hourly earnings less than
anticipated, up just a tenth of a
percent in November, 3 and a half% for
uh year-over-year and 34.3% for average
weekly hours. I'm going to do a dumpster
dive in a dumpster that's on fire and
I'll find out more for you and be back
in just a second.
>> Please do that, Mike. So, we'll uh we'll
hold tight on that. If you want to take
a look at the response in markets, it is
absolutely a green flag to a Fed rate
cut in the near term. You do see across
the board yields lower, particularly on
the front end. What that means for
stocks is higher right now. Take a look
at that bid into the 2-year yield. Uh
down almost five basis points after
being slightly higher ahead of this
release. You are seeing a little bit of
push back. Damian, you've taken a second
to look through these numbers. The
unemployment rate rising to 4.6% really
got my attention, but a host of things
that could lead to a more doish response
from the Federal Reserve.
>> I think that's what the markets are
focused on. That unemployment rate, you
know, that tick up is bad news for the
economy is good news for the market. But
I mean, look at private payrolls. I
mean, you know, that was a number that a
lot of people wanted to focus on given,
you know, the noise surrounding um, you
know, the headline figure with with
government, you know, government
employees coming off the grid. I mean,
that was really, really strong, too. So,
you know, there's some good and bad. It
just again to Francis's point, it
depends on how you want to read the tea
leaves here.
>> Well, Francis is still with us. So,
Francis Donald of RBC, how are you
reading the tea leaves?
>> Uh, slowly. Uh, because there's a lot of
tea leaves here. But a couple things
that jump out to me right away is the
3-month moving average now for non-farm
perils is about 22,000. So, if your
break even rate is maybe 30 to 40,000,
then that means you're not creating
enough jobs. And that's enough to lift
that unemploy unemployment rate higher.
But let's just remember if you make a
chart of the unemployment rate going
back to the 1970s, there are only two
periods in history when the unemployment
rate has been this low. This is still a
very tight labor market. So in my mind,
I'm wondering why we're not using words
like normalizing as we see that
unemployment rate move back towards
levels that we're more accustomed to.
But while everybody's talking about
jobs, I'm looking at the retail sales
number, which is very strong. And so the
biggest question for an economist right
now is not what is the direction of the
labor market because that's sort of
fuzzy. It's what are the implications of
a weaker job market for the economy. And
if the job market is weakening for young
folks 20 to 24, which is what we've seen
in the past, if it is less hiring and
not so much firing or layoffs, then the
implications for spending are less. And
so my first read on this is that yes, we
have what we expected ongoing softness
in the labor market, but it isn't
creating a pullback in the broad
economy. And that's going to be a really
key narrative moving into 2026,
>> which is the reason why people are
bidding up es equities and risk assets
even with potentially a worse than
expected number. Michael Collins of PGM
Fixed Income still with us. Mike, just
congratulations. You are positioned
correctly ahead of this. I'm just
wondering whether this was the read you
were looking for, if this is just bad
enough to keep the Fed in play, but good
enough to the point that Francis was
making to keep risk assets potentially
attractive. Yeah, we haven't heard the
Goldilocks economy phrase lately, but
you know, as Francis said, you know,
this is actually not not bad, right? An
unemployment rate, you know, ticking up
slowly. Job growth close to zero. She
throws out that, you know, 30 to 40,000
numbers, kind of the new normal, right?
So, don't be shocked by these really low
job gains. I think they're just kind of
standard given the population growth is
really trending down in terms of
immigration and and, you know, births
and and deaths. I mean, fertility rates
in this country have plummeted and uh so
it's this is a natural state, right? And
it's not bad. It keeps the Fed in play.
It keeps rates coming down a little bit.
It's a this is what we call the muddle
through environment. And we have like a
50% base case probability on this muddle
through, which is, you know, growth slow
but okay. Inflation a little sticky but
not going up anymore. You know, maybe
even coming down a little bit. The Fed
cutting rates a couple more times.
right? Staying in a in a nice range here
and and corporate earnings have been
really the star here. Corporations, you
know, the private sector has been the
star, right? And they continue to figure
out how to keep their margins up, which
is really been been surprisingly uh uh
impressive to me.
>> Hold on one second. Michael and uh
Francis, we'll get back to you one
second. Michael McKe has some more
information after diving into the
dumpster fire. Mike, what do you see?
[gasps]
>> Well, it looks like October was a really
terrible month. 105,000 jobs uh total
lost and that 162,000 I mentioned was
the total loss of government jobs in the
month of October. We also lost jobs in
construction uh about uh a thousand and
in manufacturing 9,000
in the month of October. Just about
everybody lost jobs somewhere during the
month. uh leisure and hospitality is a
bit of a surprise because we lost about
9,000 jobs there in November and that
was uh lost 12,000 rather and that was
expected to be a uh sign of strength. Uh
retail uh hiring as Francis had pointed
out it's up. It's not extremely strong
uh but of course you got seasonals
working into this situation as well. But
you got a 12,000 uh roughly uh gain
there. Uh 6 6,000 gain for uh the retail
trade during the month of November.
Speaking of retail, did not mention
these numbers earlier. Retail sales for
the month of October come in flat. Uh
the 2/10enth gain in the month of
September revised down to one/10enth.
And the retail sales control group much
better than anticipated comes in up 8/10
after a negative one/10enth in
September. So in October, people were
still spending got a rebound there even
though we lost a lot of jobs in the
month of October and it looks like
there's a bit of a rebound in November.
Not huge, but uh we are seeing a little
more strength than we had.
>> Michael McKe, thank you so much. Damian,
we do see the move in the markets kind
of temper itself as people look at the
details. Look at the fact that the
response rate wasn't great and look at
the fact that there's a lot of strength
despite some of the weakness that we see
in the unemployment rate. And in August
and September, we saw or revised down by
another 33,000 as well. I mean, I'm just
looking at the uh the unemployment rate
ticking up to 4.6%. You know, the labor
force participation rate also ticked up.
So, that could be fueling a little bit
of that as well, which is, you know,
means it's not as bad as you would have
otherwise thought, but um but yeah, I
mean, you had some backward revisions.
33,000 jobs lost in August and
September. That's just, you know,
feeding the uh the bullish bond trade
here. Mike, how much do you look at this
data given the fact that we have gotten
response rates come down significantly?
How much do you look at this data as
truly better quality than some of the
other data points that we've been
getting versus just as noisy, just as
easy to discount?
>> Well, there's a lot more of it, right?
Um, we have months worth of data now
trickling out and and I don't know if
the quality of any of it is that great,
Lisa. Right. So, I think you all you
have to take all of it with a grain of
salt, which probably explains the market
reaction. You know, you always see a big
knee-jerk move when the when the numbers
first come out and then they kind of
settle in and and many times actually
reverse, right? So, uh you know, the Fed
doesn't meet for almost 6 weeks. So they
have a lot more data to come and
presumably the the data they get over
the next 6 weeks will be higher quality
and again continue to paint a bigger
picture of the direction of the labor
market, direction of consumption,
director direction of of inflation. So
so there's a lot more to come before the
Fed meets and you know right now as you
know the markets are pricing in
basically the next cut not really until
June and a and a second one by December.
So really two next year, but really
slowly through throughout the year and
that makes sense to to us and unless you
get a big change in the direction of
this data.
>> Michael, we mentioned this prior to the
release. Manufacturing payrolls, they're
now at their lowest level since March of
2022. Certainly not what the Trump
administration would like to see. Talk
to us a little bit about, you know, your
read from there. Yeah, I mean the the
whole this whole manufacturing, you
know, renaissance that the
administration is trying to engineer is
is pushing on a string to some extent,
right? There's been lots of of evidence
and and research done on the amount of
manufacturing jobs and the desire for
Americans to work in those manufacturing
jobs and the the availability and and
education and skill level for Americans
to work in those manufacturing jobs,
right? does not bode well for this big
jump in manufacturing employment. Uh you
know we are a service economy. We're a
technology economy. We're a financial
services economy. Uh that's where you
know the the jobs are. Those are the
sectors that are doing the best. Not not
surprisingly. So yeah, I think you
really have to you know push back on
that the idea that we're going to have
this giant manufacturing you know labor
market renaissance in this country.
>> So Francis, I mean equities are higher
on this news. yields are down. What do
you think the market's focused on right
here?
>> Well, I'm focused on the fact that you
called it the big jump in the
unemployment rate is coming from
re-entrance into the labor market. And
this is the big thing. We all want this
number to give us a signal up or down,
but it's really the composition that
matters. So, what we do is we think
about who is losing their job uh and who
is actually being hired. And if people
are falling into unemployment because
they've started to look for a job and
they haven't quite found one, they don't
represent a permanent loss of income.
They're actually starting the process
again. So, this is kind of bullish in
the sense that it's enough for the Fed.
If they want to keep cutting, this is a
green light for them, but it isn't
enough to signal that there's a
hockeyshaped weakness in the labor
market. It is enough to signal that
growth is going to materially slow down
or there's any sort of nefarious
economic activity under the surface. And
what have we learned from the Fed? They
have a range of opinions. If they want
to cut, this is the data that allows
them to do that. If you want to maintain
a hawkish bias, there's enough under
here to tell you, hey, the economy is
fine. Retail sales are up. The control
group did really, really well. Uh, and
there's still a lot of uncertainty
around how much we should read into
these numbers.
>> Right now, the market is just pricing in
a slightly higher chance of a January
Fed rate cut. Michael McKe has a final
thought. Mike, what do you see?
>> Well, a couple of notes from the BLS.
They're saying they cannot quantify the
impact of the government shutdown in
October and November. In the data, they
do have a household response rate, which
is the unemployment rate survey for
November, that's lower than usual, just
64%.
They had a tough time getting a hold of
people, and it took them uh an extra
couple of days to do that data, and they
still didn't get enough. But the payroll
survey collection rate was higher than
usual. So, the numbers may be a little
bit more trustworthy. We can note in
terms of the unemployment rate, it's an
unrounded 4.564%.
September was 4.444. So it was more than
a percentage point increase uh in the uh
a not a percentage point but a 100 basis
point a basis point move higher excuse
me lot going on here and then the other
thing I would uh point out is that we
don't have any data from the household
survey in terms of uh hiring and firing
but we can do the math and from
September to November we added 323,000
people to the labor force we don't know
what happened to the labor force in
October, but over the two-month period,
we've increased the uh the labor force.
So, as Francis was talking about, if
people are coming into the labor force,
that may have had an impact on the
unemployment rate. So, where we are
right now is waiting probably for the
December numbers in January to get a
really uh good sense of how the economy
is uh performing. But, uh job side of
the mandate, not so great. Uh retail
sales looks like it's okay. Michael
McKe, thank you so much for this
morning. Mike Collins of PJ Fixed
Income. Just quickly here, how much do
you think this really does greenlight
the potential for a rate cut given the
fact that the unemployment rate uh might
give the ammunition that this Federal
Reserve is looking for?
>> Yeah, I I really think the Fed should
pause here, uh take take a breather, um
get another handful of months of of data
before they move again. Like I said,
they've moved almost 200 basis points
already. As Powell says, they're kind of
getting toward the neutral or in the
neutral range uh right now. The the um
lack of uh consistency and consensus
among the FOMC members is really
remarkable how you have a bunch of
people who actually think they should
hike rates from here. A bunch think they
should keep rates the same and a few
think they should cut once, twice. I
mean, it is a real scatter plot of views
among the committee. So, it feels like
the the general tendency is to just
pause and wait. Uh, like I said, the
markets aren't pricing at a full cut
until June and and uh that seems like
the right path for the Fed at this
point, unless things change dramatically
between now and then.
>> Michael Collins of PGM Fix Income, thank
you so much. It seems like markets have
retraced a lot of where they were uh
from before this release. Do you agree
with that, Francis? That even though
there's a lot of division, it seems like
this is a Fed that may cut but probably
shouldn't.
>> Well, it's jobs day, so it's the Doves
Day. they get to focus on their side of
the mandate. But in 2 days, 48 hours,
you're going to be doing inflation day.
And if consensus is right and CPI jumps
to 3.1%, well, that'll be 56 months that
inflation is above the 2% target, going
in the wrong direction. And everybody in
their mother knows that there's goods
inflation still coming in the system. So
on Thursday, it's going to be really
easy for the hawks to argue their side
of the mandate. And this is the problem
when you have a dual mandate. You're in
a stagflationary light type of
environment. You have a Fed that is
revealing its bias towards the
employment side, but it will be easy to
make the case that inflation is still
problematic at the at the end of this
week. So, balancing those two will be
important. Fed speak will be important
going forward. But I'll continue to
emphasize the details matter. 4.6% that
is driven by new entrance that has a lot
of health care jobs, sticky healthcare
jobs in it. That's a better type of
weaker job number. Inflation that is
broad-based or has services component
inflation in it on Thursday will work on
the other side. So, let the Dubs have
their day. Uh, but Thursdays, I think,
will belong to the Hawks.
>> And you can feel that tension in the
yield curve, the 230s gap getting to the
highest level going back to 2021. Right
now, let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere. Here is your bloom brief with
the Hierra Antihira. [music] Hi, Lisa.
Recapping the payrolls data we just got.
The economy adding 64,000 jobs in
November and the unemployment [music]
rate rising to the highest since 2021.
October jobs data also coming out
showing a decline of 105,000 jobs, the
largest drop since the end of 2020.
Meanwhile, Rob Reiner's son has been
arrested for allegedly killing his
parents in their Los Angeles home.
32-year-old Nick Reiner is being held
without bail. [music]
The case will be presented to the Los
Angeles County District Attorney for
filing consideration today. Celebrities
and politicians took to social media to
mourn the star who directed classics,
including The Princess Bride and This is
[music] Spinal Tap. And OpenAI's deal to
license characters from Disney for its
Sora video app is entirely in [music]
stock warrants rather than a cash
licensing fee. That's according to
People Familiar. Last week, Disney
announced [music] it would let OpenAI
pull from its library of more than 200
characters while agreeing to take a $1
billion stake [music] in the company.
That's your Bloomberg rates, Lisa.
>> Thank you so much, Yahara. And Yahara
will be back with us in just a moment
for your movers. Up next, Jeff Rosenberg
of Black Rockck breaking down the latest
data. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
The initial read isn't always the right
read. [music] Initially, there was this
pop in uh bond price yields lower. There
was a pop in [music] stock futures. We
have reversed that down a tenth of a
percent now on the S&P. We now see
yields marginally higher for the 10-year
[music]
back up to 417 and marginally just a
touch of dollar weakness under 1 hour
away from the cash open. Here [music]
are your morning movers with Yahihira
and Antihira. Hi Lisa. A lot of sellside
action to get through and we start with
Roku. Those shares are up nearly 5% in
the pre-market after Morgan Stanley
[music] double upgraded the stock to
overweight with a price target of $135.
And the call is all about advertising
[music] with the bank saying that 2026
will be a strong year for ads in the US
and connected TV will stand to benefit
[music] the most. Meanwhile, moving on
to Southwest, those shares are higher by
2% after Barclays raised [music] uh its
rating to overweight and set a $56 price
target. The upgrade follows comments
from the CEO just last week talking
about Southwest [music] pursuing airport
lounges, something that we've also seen
with JetBlue. And Lisa, I know you're
talking to the Jeff [music] Lucio later
this morning. And we end on Estee Lauder
shares. Those are rising 2% in the
pre-market after Bank of America raised
its [music] price target to a street
high of $130.
And they're citing a pickup in demand in
China and the US, which represent about
40% of Estee Lauder's [music] revenues.
Bank of America also naming Estee Lauder
its top beauty pick in the booming
beauty market uh in 2026. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yeah, let's turn back
to that payrolls report. Jeffrey
Rosenberg of BlackRock joins us for some
response. Jeff, do you think that this
really changes the needle in any way?
>> Well, Lisa, you stole my opening line. I
was going to do a little hat tip to our
friend and colleague Jonathan Pharaoh.
Uh he always says the first reaction is
not always the right reaction. And and
you said it at the at the top of the
hour or there the top of the segment. uh
you know the headline was what the
markets were reacting to the the little
bit higher than expected uh unemployment
rate. I think you guys in the earlier
segment decomposed that pretty well. The
uh labor force participation rate going
up. So it's not that bad. Uh I don't
really think to answer your question, I
don't really think this really moves the
needle. If we look at the November
number, 64,000 pretty close to
expectations. And let's not forget that
we're going to have another payroll
report before the January meeting that's
going to make these other two uh much
less important. So, I don't think it
really moves the dial a lot. And I think
what you're going to see here, and we're
already seeing in the in the market, is
that retail sales control group number
was was pretty strong. And you look at
the earnings part of this report,
average hourly earnings, you know, on a
month-over-month a little bit weaker
than expected, but the yearly number
three and a half% that's still pretty
high. uh real incomes and the wealth
effect here supporting consumption. So
that's really I think the the bigger
story here for the market move
>> at this point. Jeeoff, if the Fed does
cut rates maybe not in January but maybe
in March and you do get that fiscal
impulse coming from the federal
government, at what point is there a
risk of some sort of increased selloff
at the long end? Sort of the opposite of
what Michael Collins was talking about?
Yeah, I mean this is a little bit of a
replay of what we saw happen last year
when we had the Fed's cutting interest
rates cycle. Uh you look at last week
and what was the market reaction and it
was a steepening in the yield curve. So
there is a little bit of a message from
the bond market here that yeah the Fed's
going to control the short end, but the
long end is reacting to better growth,
sticky inflation, demand for capital
that we're seeing everywhere. uh that
pushes up the term premium. And so I
think that is more than a a risk, Lisa.
It's the reality of what we're seeing in
the market right now.
>> Jeeoff, I take your point that average
average hourly earnings at 3.5%
year-over-year is high, but it's still
the slowest pace since May of 2021. And
that leads us into CPI later this week,
right? I mean, we're going to see some
inflation data. What are you looking for
there?
Uh on the inflation data, yeah, CPI.
Yeah. Uh and and as the earlier uh
commentator talked about, I love the
framing. You know, today's the day for
the hawk uh for the doves and inflation
is is the day for the Hawks. Uh and and
the the pivot and and the framing is is
correct. The inflation side is what's
been the concern for the hawk side. I I
think the the argument there is yes,
inflation is high and it's persistent.
uh but it has been coming down and and I
think the argument that the tariff
related components are are really the
drivers of that underlying inflation
stickiness and this is the key unknown
is tariff related inflation a one-off or
is it an inflationary process? You've
heard Powell talk about it. I think
there's a pretty good consensus around
the argument that the tariff inflation
should be a one-off rather than a
process. And I think when you're looking
for the process of inflation, look not
to tariffs, but look back to what we
were just talking about. It's really in
wages and the stickiness of wages. But
on the wage side, as you just pointed
out, those two are also coming down. So,
you know, there's there's a debate in
terms of inflation. We're going to, you
know, have another data point.
>> I think we've lost Jeff Rosenberg of
Black Rockck. Thank you so much for
that. Francis Donald, the queen of that
way of describing things in terms of the
days for the doves and the day for the
Hawks. Just what what are your final
thoughts? Your sort of read through of a
mly slew of data that really paint a
complicated and nuanced picture. Well,
if we put aside the path, we woke up
this morning and I just said to you
Lisa, hey, there's a bunch of new people
who join the labor force. We still have
wages that are running above inflation.
There's half of jobs are coming to
healthcare, which is what this economy
really needs. and we have real wage
growth under beneath the surface. You
probably wouldn't say, "Oh, the US
economy is collapsing and we're heading
into a recession." And that's the story
that we have today. Now, momentum
matters. We do have a labor market that
is slightly softening, but so does
historical references. And as I said
earlier, we still have one of the
tightest labor markets that we've seen
in 50 [music] 60 years. Let's not get
ahead of ourselves here.
>> Francis Toddle, thank you so much for
being with us this morning. Wonderful to
get your thoughts. Coming up tomorrow,
don't miss this. Steven O of Federated
Hermes, Veronica Clark of City,
Republican Congressman French Hill,
[music] and Liz Thomas of Sofi, Damen
Sassa also back. Thank you so much for
being with us as always. This was
Bloomer Surveillance.